Rechargeable battery
A molten salt cell is described in which a special material is used as the active material in the negative electrode.
Such active material permits extensive cycling of the battery and does not significantly alter cell voltage.
Molten salt cells made in accordance with this invention exhibit high energy content and high discharge rates.
In addition, they can be cycled extensively without significant loss of capacity.
A molten salt secondary power supply including at least one cell said cell comprising of electrolyte, negative electrode and positive electrode characterized in that the negative electrode comprises lithium intercalated in graphite.
The power supply of claim 1 in which at least 10 weight percent of the negative electrode consists of LiC.sub.6.
The power supply of claim 1 in which the cell operates at a temperature between 375 and 500 degrees C. 4.
The power supply of claim 1 in which the lithium intercalated in graphite is made by exposing graphite to an excess of metallic lithium in the temperature range from 180 degrees C. and 450 degrees C. for a time period between two hours and 4 days.
The power supply of claim 1 in which the positive electrode comprises active material selected from the group consisting of FeS, FeS.sub.2, TiS.sub.2, NbSe.sub.3, CuS and NbS.sub.2.
The power supply of claim 1 in which the electrolyte comprises lithium chloride.
The power supply of claim 6 in which the electrolyte comprises lithium chloride and at least one compound selected from the group consisting of potassium chloride and sodium chloride.
The power supply of claim 7 in which the electrolyte consists essentially of 42.+-.5 mole percent potassium chloride, remainder lithium chloride.
Ambient temperature rechargeable battery
A secondary lithium battery system which operates at ambient temperatures.
The battery includes an organic solvent for an electrolyte, a conventional cathode, and an intercalation compound for an anode.
Such batteries maintain high capacities after numerous discharge-charge cycles.
A rechargeable battery comprising an organic solvent containing a solute as the electrolyte, an anode comprising lithium intercalated graphite as its active material, and a cathode.
A device according to claim 1, wherein said organic electrolyte comprises 1,3 dioxolane as a solvent.
A device according to claim 2, wherein said electrolyte further comprises LiAsF.sub.6.
A device according to claim 1, wherein said cathode comprises niobium triselenide.
A device according to claim 1 which operates within a temperature range from 0 degrees C. to 60 degrees C. 6.
A device according to claim 1 wherein the anode comprises LiC.sub.6.
A secondary ambient temperature lithium battery comprising the following components: an LiAsF.sub.6 electrolyte dissolved in 1,3 dioxolane; a cathode including NbSe.sub.3 ; and an anode consisting essentially of LiC.sub.6.
Nonaqueous electrolyte photoelectrochemical cell
Solid-liquid interface photoelectrochemical cells are provided wherein the liquid phase comprises a nonaqueous solvent, an electrolyte dissolved therein forming an ionically conductive solution and a redox couple suitable to accept and donate electrons from and to the electrodes.
The redox couple is present in an amount sufficient to sustain a predetermined current and the concentrations of the electrolyte and redox couple in the solution are sufficient to provide no greater than a selected small voltage drop relative to the output voltage of the cell.
The efficiency of conversion of light to electrical energy of such photoelectrochemical cells are 10% and greater.
A photoelectrochemical cell having a solar energy conversion efficiency in the range of about 10% and above, comprising a semiconductor photoactive electrode, a nonaqueous solvent and an electrolyte dissolved therein forming an ionically conductive solution, a counterelectrode providing an electrical connection from said solution to said photoactive electrode; and a redox couple dissolved in said solvent suitable to accept and donate electrons from and to said electrode upon said cell by an external source of light, said redox couple present in an amount sufficient to sustain a predetermined current; wherein the concentration of said electrolyte and said redox couple in said solution are selected to provide a voltage drop substantially less than the output voltage of said cell during conversion in said cell of said light to electricity.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein said solvent further comprises an agent which induces formation of a predetermined amount of an insulating compound at the interface of said semiconductor electrode and said solution.
A cell according to claim 2 wherein said agent is water and said semiconductor comprises silicon.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein said semiconductor is an n-type.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein said semiconductor is a p-type.
A cell according to claim 5 wherein said semiconductor comprises p-silicon.
A cell according to claims 4 or 5 wherein said solution is a liquid film of a thickness less than 100 microns.
A cell according to claims 4 or 5 wherein the band gap of said semiconductor is in the range of 1.0 to 2.3 eV.
A cell according to claim 8 wherein said semiconductor is selected from the group consisting of silicon, gallium arsenide, gallium arsenide phosphide, cadmium telluride, cadmium selenide and indium phosphide.
A cell according to claim 9 wherein said semiconductor is selected from silicon, GaAs and GaAs.sub.x P.sub.1-x, wherein x is between 0.2 and 1.
A cell according to claim 9 wherein said semiconductor comprises cadmium telluride.
A cell according to claims 4 or 5 wherein said semiconductor is amorphous.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein said nonaqueous solvent is characterized by a dielectric constant greater than 20 and a viscosity less than 2 centipoise.
A cell according to claim 13 wherein said solvent is selected from an alkanol of 1 to 6 carbon atoms or a nitrile of 2 to 6 carbon atoms.
A cell according to claim 14 wherein said solvent is selected from methanol or acetonitrile.
A cell according to claim 13 wherein said electrolyte is selected from lithium perchlorate and tetra alkyl ammonium borontetrafluoride.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein said redox couple is selected from ferrocene-ferrocenium salts and derivatives thereof.
A cell according to claims 5, 11, 15 or 17 wherein said electrolyte is lithium perchlorate, said solvent is methanol, said redox couple is (1-hydroxyethyl)ferrocene/(1-hydroxyethyl)ferrocenium salt, and said semiconductor is n-type silicon.
A cell according to claims 5, 16, 15 or 17 wherein said electrolyte is tetraethyl ammonium borotetrafluoride, said solvent is acetonitrile, said redox couple is ferrocene/ferrocenium salt and said semiconductor is an epitaxial layer of GaAs.sub.0.72 P.sub.0.28 on a GaAs substrate.
A cell according to claims 5, 16, 15 or 17 wherein said solvent is acetonitrile, said redox couple is ferrocene/ferrocenium salt, said electrolyte is tetraethyl ammonium borontetrafluoride and said semiconductor n-GaAs.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the predetermined current is the solar photon flux with energies greater than the bandgap of the photoactive electrode multiplied by the charge of an electron.
Solid electrolyte cell and iodine-doped metal complexes as the cathode  material
Charge-transfer complexes of the formula I ##STR1## in which M, R.sup.1 to R.sup.6 and x are as defined in claim 1 are suitable as cathode material in lithium/iodine or silver/iodine solid electrolyte cells.
A solid electrolyte call containing a solid anode made of lithium or silver, a solid lithium iodide or silver iodide electrolyte and a charge-transfer complex consisting of a metal complx, and iodine as the cathode, wherein the cathode consists of an iodine-doped complex or a mixture thereof with iodine having the formula I ##STR5## in which M is a divalent metal atom belonging to the group consisting of Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Pd and Pt, R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 independently of one another are a hydrogen atom or alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, alkaralkyl or acyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 independently of one another are a hydrogen atom, alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio and alkoxycarbonyl having 1 to 8 C atoms, aryloxy or halogen, or R.sup.3 and R.sup.4 and also R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 together are --CH.sub.2).sub.n in which n=3, 4 or 5, --O(CH.sub.2).sub.m O--in which m=1 to 4 or a radical of the formula --CH.dbd.CH--CH.dbd.CH--, and x is a rational number from 1 to 300.
A solid electrolyte cell according to claim 1, wherein in M in formula I is Fe and especially Cu or Ni.
A solid electrolyte cell according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 in formula I contain 1 to 6 C atoms as alkyl, 5 or 6 ring carbon atoms as cycloalkyl and 1 to 6 C atoms as acyl, and, as aryl are phenyl, as alkaryl are alkylphenyl and as alkaralkyl are alkylbenzyl.
A solid electrolyte cell according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are a hydrogen atom, methyl, ethyl, phenyl, p-methylphenyl, p-methoxyphenyl p-chlorophenyl or p-fluorophenyl and R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 are a hydrogen atom, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, methylthio or fluorine or R.sup.3 and R.sup.4 and also R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 together are --CH.sub.2).sub.4, --OCH.sub.2 O--, --OCH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O-- or --CH.dbd.CH--CH.dbd.CH--.
A solid electrolyte cell according to claim 1, wherein x in formula I is a number from 1 to 200, escpecially 1 to 100.
A solid electrolyte cell according to claim 5, wherein x in formula I is a number from 2 to 50.
A solid electrolyte cell according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.1 to R.sup.6 in formula I are a hydrogen atom or methyl and M is Cu or Ni.
An iodine-doped complex or mixtures thereof with iodine having the formula II ##STR6## in which M is a divalent metal atom belonging to the group consisting of Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Pd and Pt, R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 independently of one another are a hydrogen atom or alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, alkaralkyl or acyl each of which is unsubstituted or substituted, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 independently of one another are a hydrogen atom, alkyl, alkoxy, alkylthio and alkoxycarbonyl having 1 to 8 C atoms, arloxy or halogen, or R.sup.3 and R.sup.4 and also R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 together are --CH.sub.2).sub.n in which n=3,4 or 5--O(CH.sub.2).sub.m O-- in which m=1 to 4 or a radical of the formula --CH.dbd.CH--CH.dbd.CH--, and y is a rational number from 5 to 300.
Mo.sub.6 Se.sub.6 solid state electrode for secondary lithium batteries
A non-aqueous battery is described which employs a molybdenum dichalcogenide negative electrode and a positive electrode of the formula Li.sub.x Mo.sub.6 Se.sub.6 wherein x represents an integer ranging from 0.5 to 9.
A non-aqueous battery including a lithium anode, an electrolyte and a cathode, characterized in that said cathode comprises a molybdenum selenide of the formula Mo.sub.6 Se.sub.6.
A battery in accordance with claim 1 wherein said electrolyte is LiAsF.sub.6 in 2 methyl tetrahydrofuran.
A non-aqueous secondary lithium battery including a cathode, an electrolyte and an anode, the cathode and anode comprising Li.sub.x Mo.sub.6 Se.sub.6 wherein x represents an integer ranging from 0.5 to 9.
A battery in accordance with claim 3 wherein x in the anode is 9.
A battery in accordance with claim 3 wherein the electrolyte is LiAsF.sub.6 in 2 methyl tetrahydrofuran.
A non-aqueous battery including a cathode, an electrolyte and an anode of Li.sub.x Mo.sub.6 Se.sub.6 wherein x is an integer ranging from 0.5 to 9.
Secondary lithium battery
The present invention provides an electrolyte for use on a secondary lithium battery comprising amorphous V.sub.2 O.sub.5 base cathode active material, a metallic lithium base active material, and an electrolytic solution lithium salt dissolved in a mixed organic solvent.
The organic solvent is ethylene carbonate mixed with one organic solvent of 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, 2,5-dimethyltetrahydrofuran, 1,3-dioxalan, 4-methyl-1,3-dioxalan, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, etc.
The mixed ratio of ethylene carbonate ranges within 10 to 50%, and water content of the electrolytic solution ranges within 400 to 5 ppm, and the content of impurities other than water ranges within 1000 to 10 ppm.
The resultant secondary lithium battery is excellent in charge-discharge cycle life.
A secondary lithium battery comprising: an anode active material selected from the group consisting of lithium, lithium ion dischargeable lithium alloys and lithium-doped high polymers; a cathode active material reacting with lithium ions through electrochemically reversible reaction; and an electrolytic solution containing one or more lithium salts dissolved in an organic solvent; said organic solvent being a mixed solvent essentially consisting of highly pure ethylene carbonate and a polar aprotic solvent, and wherein the water content of said electrolytic solution is not more than 400 ppm and the content of impurities other than water is not more than 1,000 ppm.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein said organic solvent used in said electrolytic solution is a mixed solvent of ethylene carbonate with at least one aprotic solvent selected from the group consisting of ethers, polar aprotic solvents each having a polar double bond represented by >C.dbd.O or >S.dbd.O and acetonitrile, and wherein the water content of said electrolytic solution ranges within 400 to 5 ppm with the content of impurities other than water being within the range of 1,000 to 10 ppm.
The second lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein said organic solvent is a mixed solvent of ethylene carbonate with tetrahydrofuran or a derivative of tetrahydrofuran containing an alkyl group having not more than 4 carbon atoms.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein said organic solvent is a mixed solvent of ethylene carbonate with 1,3-dioxolan or a derivative of 1,3-dioxolan containing an alkyl group having not more than 4 carbon atoms, and wherein the water content of said electrolytic solution ranges within 100 to 5 ppm with the content of impurities other than water being within the range of 1,000 to 10 ppm.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein said organic solvent is a mixed solvent of ethylene carbonate with a dialkoxyethane having an alkoxy group having not more than 4 carbon atoms.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein said organic solvent is a mixed solvent of ethylene carbonate with an organic compound having a polar double bond represented by >C.dbd.O or >S.dbd.O, and wherein the water content of said electrolytic solution ranges within 150 to 5 ppm with the content of impurities other than water being within the range of 1,000 to 10 ppm.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein said organic solvent is a mixed solvent of ethylene carbonate with acetonitrile.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein said cathode active material is any of an amorphous material mainly composed of V.sub.2 O.sub.5, amorphous Cr.sub.3 O.sub.8, Cu.sub.4 Mo.sub.6 S.sub.8, Cu.sub.3 Mo.sub.6 S.sub.7.9, MoS.sub.2, MoS.sub.2 with oxidized surface, MoS.sub.2 containing Li, Cr.sub.0.5 V.sub.0.5 S.sub.2, NbSe.sub.3, TiSe.sub.3, TiS.sub.2, V.sub.6 O.sub.13, NiPS.sub.3, amorphous MoS.sub.3, Cu.sub.2 V.sub.2 O.sub.7, Li.sub.1+x V.sub.3 O.sub.8 (0<x.ltoreq.1), polyacetylene, polyaniline, polypyrrole, polythiophene, polyacene or polyacenoacene.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 8, wherein said amorphous material mainly composed of V.sub.2 O.sub.5 is substantially pure V.sub.2 O.sub.5 or V.sub.2 O.sub.5 added with at least one selected from the group consisting of P.sub.2 O.sub.5, TeO.sub.2, Sb.sub.2 O.sub.3, Bi.sub.2 O.sub.3, GeO.sub.2, B.sub.2 O.sub.3, MoO.sub.3, WO.sub.3 and TiO.sub.2.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein said lithium salt soluble in said electrolytic solution is at least one lithium salt selected from the group consisting of LiAsF.sub.6, LiC.sub.1 O.sub.4, LiBF.sub.4, LiSbF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3 and LiCF.sub.3 CO.sub.2, and the content of said lithium salt in said electrolytic solution ranges from 0.5 to 1.5 mol/1.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 3, wherein said organic solvent is a mixed solvent selected from the group consisting of a mixture of ethylene carbonate with 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, a mixture of ethylene carbonate with 2,5-dimethyltetrahydrofuran and a mixture of ethylene carbonate with methyltetrahydrofuran and tetrahydrofuran; and wherein the mixed ratio of ethylene carbonate, by volume, ranges within 10 to 50%.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 4, wherein said organic solvent is a mixed solvent selected from the group consisting of a mixture of ethylene carbonate with 4-methyl-1,3-dioxolan and a mixture of ethylene carbonate with 2-methyl-1,3-dioxolan; and wherein the mixed ratio of ethylene carbonate, by volume, ranges within 10 to 60%.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 5, wherein said organic solvent is a mixed solvent selected from the group consisting of a mixture of ethylene carbonate with 1,2-diethoxyethane, a mixture of ethylene carbonate with 1,2-dimethoxyethane, a mixture of ethylene carbonate with 1,2-dimethoxyethane and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, and the combination of ethylene carbonate, 1,2-dimethoxyethane and tetrahydrofuran; and wherein the mixed ratio of ethylene carbonate, by volume, ranges within 10 to 60%.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 6, wherein said organic solvent is a mixed solvent of ethylene carbonate with propylene carbonate, and wherein the mixed ratio of ethylene carbonate, by volume, ranges within 10 to 60%.
A secondary lithium battery comprising: an amorphous V.sub.2 O.sub.5 base cathode active material; a metallic lithium base anode active material; and an electrolytic solution containing lithium salt dissolved in a mixed organic solvent; said mixed organic solvent is ethylene carbonate mixed with at least one organic solvent selected from the group consisting of 2-methyltetrohydrafuran, 2,5-dimethyltetrahydrofuran, 1,3-dioxolan, 1,2-dimetthoxyethane, 4-methyl-1,3-dioxolan, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, propylene carbonate, methyl formate, tetrahydrofuran, methyl acetate and acetonitrile; the mixed ratio of ethylene carbonate ranging within 10 to 50%; the water content in said electrolytic solution ranging within 400 to 5 ppm; and the content of impurities other than water ranging within 1000 to 10 ppm.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 15, wherein said lithium salt soluble in said electrolytic solution is at least one lithium salt selected from the group consisting of LiAsF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiBF.sub.4, LiSbF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3 and LiCF.sub.3 CO.sub.2, and the content of said lithium salt in said electrolytic solution ranges from 0.5 to 1.5 mol/1.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 15, wherein said amorphous material mainly composed of V.sub.2 O.sub.5 is substantially pure V.sub.2 O.sub.5 or V.sub.2 O.sub.5 added with at least one selected from the group consisting of P.sub.2 O.sub.5, TeO.sub.2, Sb.sub.2 O.sub.3, Bi.sub.2 O.sub.3, GeO.sub.2, B.sub.2 O.sub.3, MoO.sub.3, WO.sub.3 and TiO.sub.2.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the water content of said electrolytic solution is not more than 100 ppm and the content of impurities other than water is not more than 1,000 ppm.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein the water content of said electrolytic solution ranges within 100 to 5 ppm and the content of impurities other than water ranges from 1,000 to 10 ppm.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 15, wherein the water content in said electrolytic solution ranges within 100 to 5 ppm and the content of impurities other than water ranges within 1,000 to 10 ppm.
Lithium disulfide battery
A negative electrode limited secondary electrochemical cell having dense FeS.sub.2 positive electrode operating exclusively on the upper plateau, a Li alloy negative electrode and a suitable lithium-containing electrolyte.
The electrolyte preferably is 25 mole percent LiCl, 38 mole percent LiBr and 37 mole percent KBr.
The cell may be operated isothermally.
A secondary electrochemical cell having an FeS.sub.2 positive electrode having about 15 mole percent CoS.sub.2, a Li alloy negative electrode and a suitable lithium-containing electrolyte, said cell being negative electrode limited and having only an endothermic discharge reaction of the positive electrode, wherein the cell operating temperatures are in the range of from about 340.degree.
to about 400.degree.
C., the electrolyte is about 25 mole percent LiCl and about 38 mole percent LiBr and about 37 mole percent KBr, the negative electrode has Li present in the range of from about 48 atom percent to about 53 atom percent.
The cell of claim 1 and further comprising a housing enclosing said positive electrode, negative electrode and electrolyte, said housing having the inner surface thereof molybdenum.
The cell of claim 2, wherein the housing is stainless steel having the inner surface thereof clad or coated with a material selected from the group consisting of molybdenum, TiN and TiC.
A secondary electrochemical cell with an FeS.sub.2 positive electrode which is negative electrode limited having only an endothermic discharge reaction, wherein the negative electrode is a lithium alloy, wherein the lithium is present in the range of from about 48 atom percent to about 53 atom percent and the electrolyte is an eutectic of lithium chloride, lithium bromide and potassium bromide.
A secondary electrochemical cell having an FeS.sub.2 positive electrode, which may contain an additive of about 15 mole percent CoS.sub.2, an Li-alloy negative electrode and a LiCl-LiBr-KBr electrolyte, said cell being negative electrode limited, wherein the cell operating temperatures are in a range of from about 340.degree.
to 400.degree.
C., the electrolye is about 25 mole percent LiCl and about 38 mole percent LiBr and about 37 mole percent KBr.
An electrochemical cell with a FeS.sub.2 positive electrode haivng only an endothermic discharge reaction, a Li-alloy negative electrode, wherein the amount of negative active material limits the cell, and an electrolyte of a eutectic of LiCl, LiBr, and KBr.
Overcharge tolerant high-temperature cells and batteries
In a lithium-alloy/metal sulfide high temperature electrochemical cell, cell damage caused by overcharging is avoided by providing excess lithium in a high-lithium solubility phase alloy in the negative electrode and a specified ratio maximum of the capacity of a matrix metal of the negative electrode in the working phase to the capacity of a transition metal of the positive electrode.
In charging the cell, or a plurality of such cells in series and/or parallel, chemical transfer of elemental lithium from the negative electrode through the electrolyte to the positive electrode provides sufficient lithium to support an increased self-charge current to avoid anodic dissolution of the positive electrode components above a critical potential.
The lithium is subsequently electrochemically transferred back to the negative electrode in an electrochemical/chemical cycle which maintains high self-discharge currents on the order of 3-15 mA/cm.sup.2 in the cell to prevent overcharging.
A chemical overcharge protection arrangement for a re-chargeable electrochemical cell characterized by variation of lithium content of a negative electrode of the cell as the cell is cycled between charged and discharged states, said arrangement comprising: a positive, first electrode; a negative, lithium alloy, second electrode, wherein said second electrode is characterized by a high lithium-activity phase which is richer in lithium than in the normal cycled range as full cell charge is approached; and an electrolyte disposed between said first and second electrodes and having high lithium solubility to allow for chemical transfer of lithium from the first to the second electrode during charging and an increased self-discharge current from the second to the first electrode in preventing overcharging of said first electrode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein: the positive electrode includes a transition metal sulfide with a transition metal having a capacity of PUNC+PCYC+POCC; and the negative electrode includes lithium combined with a matrix metal having a capacity of NUNC+NCYC+NOCC, with POCC extending to a higher capacity than NOCC.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein said electrolyte is comprised of a molten salt.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3 wherein said molten salt electrolyte includes lithium salt.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4 wherein said molten salt electrolyte further includes MgO powder.
The electrochemical cell of claim 5 wherein said molten salt electrolyte includes a mixture of 22 m % LiF--31 m % LiCl--47 m % LiBr salts.
The electrochemical cell of claim 5 wherein said molten salt electrolyte includes a mixture of Li Cl--LiBr--KBr salts.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein said positive electrode is selected from the group comprised of FeS, Li.sub.2 FeS.sub.2, FeS.sub.2, NiS, Ni.sub.3 S.sub.2, NiS.sub.2, CoS, CoS.sub.2 and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein said positive electrode is comprised of FeS--Fe--Li.sub.2 S. 10.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein the lithium alloy in said negative electrode has a higher melting point than an operating temperature of the cell.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein said negative electrode is comprised of Li.sub.x Al.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein said negative electrode is comprised of lithium, aluminum and silicon.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein said negative electrode is comprised of Li.sub.x (Al.sub.y Si.sub.1-y) alloy, where 0<y<1 and x.ltoreq.
[1.13y+4(1-y)] and additional lithium is included as Li.sub.2 S in the positive electrode to provide a total lithium amount in these forms of at least 1.13y+4(1-y).
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein said negative electrode includes a lithium alloy selected from the group consisting of Li--Al--Fe, Li--Al--Ni, Li--Al--Co and Li--Al--Fe--Si.
A method of chemical overcharge protection for an electrochemical cell comprising: providing a positive electrode including transition metal chalcogenide with a transition metal capacity of PUNC+PCYC+POCC, a negative, lithium alloy electrode with lithium combined with a matrix metal having a capacity of NUNC+NCYC+NOCC with POCC extending to a higher capacity than NOCC, and an electrolyte between the positive and negative electrodes; charging the cell to the capacity NUNC+NCYC at a first charge rate to increase the transfer rate of Li.degree.
from the negative electrode into the electrolyte; and charging the cell to beyond the capacity NCYC at a second charge rate balanced by Li.degree.
transport from the negative to the positive electrode and by Li.sup.+ migration from the positive to the negative electrode.
The method of claim 15 wherein said first charge rate is more than said second charge rate.
The method of claim 15 wherein the charging is interrupted between the first and second charge rates.
The method of claim 15 wherein said electrochemical cell is in a battery of electrochemical cells and cells of lower charge are permitted to reach full charge and fully charged cells are protected.
Metal silicide electrode in lithium cells
The negative electrode of an electrochemical cell with lithium as the electroactive species includes a metal silicide.
This metal silicide can be an alloy (that is, a multimetallic silicide) that reacts with lithium and acts as a reversible lithium reservoir during cell operation.
Electrochemical cells in accordance with the invention have excellent kinetics and higher theoretical specific energy that the Li-Si binary alloys presently used in some thermal batteries.
Magnesium silicide, calcium silicide and molybdenum silicide are particularly preferred materials for these negative electrodes due to their thermodynamic properties.
In an electrochemical cell with lithium as the electroactive species, the cell having a positive electrode, a negative electrode and an electrolyte, the improvement comprising: the negative electrode including a metal silicide, the metal silicide reacting with lithium and acting as a reversible lithium reservoir during cell operation, the metal silicide including Mg.sub.2 Si or Mn.sub.3 Si.
The cell as in claim 1 wherein the metal silicide is an alloy.
The cell as in claim 1 wherein the metal silicide includes Mg.sub.2 Si.
The cell as in claim 1 wherein the metal silicide includes Mg.sub.2 Si-Mg-Li.sub.13 Si.sub.4 or Mn.sub.3 Si-Mn-Li.sub.22 Si.sub.5.
Rechargeable battery with solid electrolyte
The present invention relates to a rechargeable battery with solid electrolyte.
The battery according to the invention comprises a solid polymer electrolyte, an anode composed of a lithium source and a cathode comprising a lithium-receiving material.
The lithium-receiving material is a compound of the formula CF.sub.x M.sub.y, where M is chosen from I, Cl, Br, Re, W, Mo, B and 0.3.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.9, 0.02.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.06, and the structure of this material is such that the carbon atoms form planar hexagons.
The battery according to the invention has improved capacity.
Rechargeable battery comprising a polymer electrolyte, an anode composed of a lithium source and a cathode comprising a lithium-receiving material, characterized in that the lithium-receiving material is a compound of the formula CF.sub.x M.sub.y, where M is chosen from I, Cl, Br, Re, W, Mo, B and 0.3.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.9, 0.02.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.06, and the structure of this material is such that the carbon atoms form planar hexagons, said compound of the formula CF.sub.x M.sub.y being obtained at ambient temperature by reaction of graphite with gaseous fluorine F.sub.2 in the presence of an HF + MF.sub.n mixture as catalyst, representing the valence of the element M. 2.
Rechargeable battery according to claim 1 (sic), characterized in that MF.sub.n is chosen from If.sub.7, IF.sub.5, ClF.sub.3, BrF.sub.5, BF.sub.3 and ReF.sub.7.
Rechargeable battery according to claim 1, characterized in that the lithium source of the anode is composed of metallic lithium or a lithium alloy, a compound for intercalating lithium at a low potential or a conjugated polymer n-doped with lithium.
Rechargeable battery according to claim 1, characterized in that the electrolyte is composed of a chemically inert polyether and a lithium salt.
Rechargeable battery according to claim 4, characterized in that the electrolyte is composed of polyethylene oxide and lithium perchlorate.
Rechargeable battery according to claim 1, characterized in that the cathode material comprises, in addition to the lithium receiver, the material constituting the solid polymer electrolyte.
Rechargeable battery according to claim 1, characterized in that the cathode material comprises graphite.
Silica electrolyte element for secondary lithium battery
A film of linear organosilsesquioxane polymer, or "ladder" organosiloxane, coated upon the surface of a LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4 secondary battery electrode 19 and cured to a glassy layer is subjected to plasma oxidation to remove pendant organic groups comprising the coated polymer.
The resulting ultrathin silica separator layer 17 is replete with minute pores which take up and retain by capillarity a typical LiClO.sub.4 electrolyte solution.
A counter-electrode 15 placed in intimate contact with the silica electrolyte element completes a secondary battery structure 10 in which lithium ions readily migrate through the electrolyte during repeated discharge/charge cycles without loss of element integrity or efficacy.
An electrolyte element for a secondary battery, which element comprises: a) a continuous silica layer having dispersed therein a multiplicity of minute voids; and b) a fluid organic solution electrolyte contained within said voids.
An electrolyte element according to claim 1 wherein said silica layer is the oxidation product of a cured film of siloxane polymer having the general formula: ##STR2## wherein R and R' are the same or different radicals selected from the group consisting of aliphatics of 1-4 carbons, phenyl, phenyls substituted with one or more hydroxy or halogen, and halogens, provided R and R' are not both halogen; x.sub.1, x.sub.2, x.sub.3, and x.sub.4 are functional radicals selected from the group consisting of alkoxies of 1-4 carbons, halogens, hydroxyl, and silanol; and n is an integer in the range of 10-200.
An electrolyte element according to claim 1 wherein said fluid electrolyte is an organic solution comprising a lithium compound.
An electrolyte element according to claim 3 wherein said lithium compound is selected from the group consisting of LiC1O.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, and LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4.
A method of making an electrolyte element for a secondary battery which comprises: a) coating onto a substrate a solution of a siloxane polymer having the general formula: ##STR3## wherein R and R' are the same or different radicals selected from the group consisting of aliphatics of 1-4 carbons, phenyl, phenyls substituted with one or more hydroxy or halogen, and halogens, provided R and R' are not both halogen; x.sub.1, x.sub.2, x.sub.3, and x.sub.4 are functional radicals selected from the group consisting of alkoxies of 1-4 carbons, halogens, hydroxyl, and silanol; and n is an integer in the range of 10-200; b) drying the resulting coating to form a layer of said siloxane polymer; c) curing said polymer layer to a solid glassy state; d) treating the cured polymer layer to remove said pendant radicals and thereby convert said polymer layer to a layer of silica having a network of minute voids throughout; and e) contacting the surface of said silica layer with a fluid electrolyte to thereby cause the infusion of said electrolyte into said voids network.
A method according to claim 5 wherein said substrate is an electrode element for a secondary battery.
A method according to claim 5 wherein said cured polymer layer is treated by means of plasma oxidation.
A method according to claim 5 wherein said fluid electrolyte is an organic solution comprising a lithium compound.
A secondary battery comprising a positive electrode and a negative electrode, one of said electrodes providing a source of lithium ions, and an electrolyte element separating said electrodes and providing a medium for migration of said lithium ions between said electrodes characterized in that said electrolyte element comprises: a) a silica layer having dispersed therein a network of minute voids; and b) a fluid electrolyte contained within said voids network.
A secondary battery according to claim 9 characterized in that said silica layer is the oxidation product of a cured film of siloxane polymer having the general formula: ##STR4## wherein R and R' are the same or different radicals selected from the group consisting of aliphatics of 1-4 carbons, phenyl, phenyls substituted with one or more hydroxy or halogen, and halogens, provided R and R' are not both halogen; x.sub.1, x.sub.2, x.sub.3, and x.sub.4 are functional radicals selected from the group consisting of alkoxies of 1-4 carbons, halogens, hydroxyl, and silanol; and n is an integer in the range of 10-200.
Solid polymer electrolyte lithium batteries
This invention pertains to Lithium batteries using Li ion (Li.sup.+) conductive solid polymer electrolytes composed of solvates of Li salts immobilized in a solid organic polymer matrix.
In particular, this invention relates to Li batteries using solid polymer electrolytes derived by immobilizing solvates formed between a Li salt and an aprotic organic solvent (or mixture of such solvents) in poly(vinyl chloride).
A solid electrolyte comprising: a polymer network comprising poly(vinyl chloride); a solvate consisting of an alkali metal salt dissolved within one or more aprotic organic solvents; and a low boiling solvent capable of evaporating off of the polymer/solvate mixture at about room temperature.
The solid electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said alkali metal salt is a low lattice energy lithium salt.
The solid electrolyte of claim 2, wherein said low lattice energy lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of LiClO.sub.4, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiPF.sub.6, and LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).
The solid electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte contains between 5 and 15 weight-percent of said alkali metal salt.
The solid electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said polymer network further comprises a mixture of poly(vinyl chloride) and poly(vinyl acetate).
The solid electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said aprotic organic solvent is selected from a group consisting of propylene carbonate, ethylene carbonate, dimethyl sulfoxide, tetramethylene sulfone (sulfolane), gamma-butyrolactone, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone, and tri-and tetra-ethylene glycol dimethyl ether.
The solid electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte contains between 50 and 90 weight-percent of said aprotic organic solvent.
The solid electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte contains between 5 and 30 weight percent of said polymer network.
The solid electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said low boiling solvent is tetrahydrofuran.
A rechargeable electrochemical cell comprising: an alkali metal containing anode; a cathode; and solid electrolyte containing a polymer network comprising poly(vinyl chloride); a solvate consisting of an alkali metal salt dissolved within one or more aprotic organic solvents; and a low boiling solvent capable of evaporating off of the polymer/solvate mixture at about room temperature.
The rechargeable cell of claim 10, wherein said alkali metal containing anode is lithium.
The rechargeable cell of claim 10, wherein said alkali metal containing anode is a lithium alloy.
The rechargeable cell of claim 12, wherein said lithium alloy is selected from the group consisting of lithium-aluminum, lithium-tin, lithium-lead, lithium-zinc, and lithium-magnesium.
The rechargeable cell of claim 10, wherein said alkali metal containing anode is a lithium containing compound.
The rechargeable cell of claim 14, wherein said lithium containing compound is graphitic carbon.
The rechargeable cell of claim 14, wherein said lithium containing compound is a lithium-transition metal oxide.
The rechargeable cell of claim 14, wherein said lithium containing compound is a lithium-transition metal sulfide.
The rechargeable cell of claim 14, wherein said cathode is a metal or a mixed metal oxide.
The rechargeable cell of claim 14, wherein said cathode is a metal chalcogenide.
The rechargeable cell of claim 14, wherein said cathode is selected from the group consisting of TiS.sub.2, FeS.sub.2, V.sub.6 O.sub.13, LiNiO.sub.2, V.sub.2 O.sub.5, LiCoO.sub.2, MnO.sub.2, Li.sub.x Mn.sub.y O.sub.z, and LiM.sub.1-y M'.sub.y O.sub.2, where M and M' are transition metals.
A method for preparing solid electrolytes comprising: combining a polymer network comprising poly(vinyl chloride), with a solvate consisting of an alkali metal salt dissolved within one or more aprotic organic solvents, and a low boiling solvent; and evaporating off the low boiling solvent at about room temperature.
Non-aqueous secondary lithium battery
The present invention provides an electrolyte for use in a secondary lithium battery comprising (i) vanadium oxide-based cathode active material having a molar ratio of oxygen to vanadium between two and three, (ii) an anode active material selected from the group consisting of lithium, lithium ion dischargeable alloys, lithium ion dischargeable intercalation or insertion compounds, and (iii) an electrolyte solution of lithium salt(s) dissolved in a mixed organic solvent.
The organic solvent is a mixture of three kinds of solvents, namely ethylene carbonate (EC), propylene carbonate (PC) and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (2MeTHF) in the following ratio: EC (x)PC(y)2MeTHF(z) where x, y and z are volumetric mixing percentages of each solvent, and x+y+z=100, x<y, z<y and x+y>50 (or z<50).
The resultant secondary lithium battery has a good charge-discharge cycle life and is safe.
A secondary lithium battery comprising an anode lithium active material, a cathode vanadium pentoxide active material further comprising V.sub.2 O.sub.5 --P.sub.2 O.sub.5 active material, and an electrolyte solution containing at least one lithium salt dissolved in an organic solvent; said organic solvent comprising ethylene carbonate (EC), propylene carbonate (PC) and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (2MeTHF), in the following mixing volume ratio: EC(x)PC(y)2MeTHF(z), where x+y+z=100, x<y, z<y, x+y>50 (or z<50) and z is greater than zero.
The secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein z is less than 35% and the ratio of EC to PC is 5:95 to 45:55 when x+y is taken as 100.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein the amount of V.sub.2 O.sub.5 to P.sub.2 O.sub.5 occurs in a molar ratio of about 95;5.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the anode lithium active material is selected from the group consisting of lithium, lithium ion dischargeable lithium alloys, lithium ion dischargeable intercalation or insertion compounds.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of: LiPF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2, LiC(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.3, LiCF.sub.3 CO.sub.2, LiBF.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiBr and LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4.
The secondary lithium battery according the claim 8, wherein the amount of the concentration of lithium salt ranges from about 0.5 M to about 2.0 M. 7.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein x is 5%.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein x is 15%.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim wherein x is 30%.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein the electrolyte solution is 1M LiAsF.sub.6 -EC/PC/2MeTHF(30/40/30).
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein the electrolyte solution is 1M LiAsF.sub.6 -EC/PC/2MeTHF(15/70/15).
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein the electrolyte solution is 1M LiPF.sub.6 -EC/PC/2MeTHF(15/70/15).
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein the electrolyte solution is 1MLiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2 -EC/PC/2MeTHF(15/70/15).
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein the electrolyte solution is 1M LiASF.sub.6 -EC/PC/2MeTHF(5/80/15).
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein the electrolyte solution is 1M LiAsF.sub.6 -EC/PC/2MeTHF(30/55/15).
A secondary lithium battery comprising: a lithium anode active material; a cathode vanadium pentoxide active material further comprising V.sub.2 O.sub.5 and P.sub.2 O.sub.5 active material, wherein the amount of V.sub.2 O.sub.5 to P.sub.2 O.sub.5 occurs in a molar ratio of 95:5, and an electrolyte solution containing at least one lithium salt selected from the consisting of: LiPF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2, LiC(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.3, LiCF.sub.3 CO.sub.2, LiBF.sub.4, LiBF.sub.4, .iAlCl.sub.4, LiBr and LiB(C.sub.8 H.sub.5).sub.4 wherein the concentration of lithium salt ranges from about 0.5 M to about 2.0 M, dissolved in an organic solvent; said organic solvent comprising ethylene carbonate (EC), propylene carbonate (PC) and 2-methyl-tetrahydrofuran (2MeTHF) in the following mixing voluem ratio: EC(x)PC(y)2MeTHF(z) wherein x is from 5% to 30%, y is from 40% to 80%, and z is from 15% to 30, and wherein x+y+z=100x<y, z<y and x+y>50.
Method of pretreating a cathode for attaining a stable voltage upon cell  assembly
A chemical pretreatment method for inserting lithium into cathode active material silver vanadium oxide to provide a reduced form of silver vanadium oxide which, when included into a cathode mixture and incorporated into an electrochemical cell, may result in a cell with a lowered initial open circuit voltage, thereby eliminating the need to lower unstably high initial cell voltages through external loads after cell construction.
A process for constructing an electrochemical cell wherein the need to discharge the high voltage portion of the cell's capacity after assembly is obviated, said process comprises: (a) chemically pretreating the cathode prior to cell assembly, wherein the active material of the cathode comprises silver vanadium oxide, by contacting the active material with a compound capable of inserting a lithium species into the active material resulting in a treated cathode active material represented by the formula: where x has a value between 0.02 and 0.10, y has a value between 0.5 and 2.0, and z has a value between 4.5 and 6.0.
The process according to claim 1, wherein the treated cathode active material is represented by the formula: 3.
The process of claim 2, wherein the compound capable of inserting a lithium species comprises an organic lithiating agent.
The process of claim 3, further comprising selecting the organic lithiating agent to be n-butyl lithium.
A cathode comprising lithiated silver vanadium oxide as the cathode active material, and further comprising binder and conductor materials, wherein the cathode comprises about 92.2 weight percent AgV.sub.2 O.sub.5.5 about 1.8 weight percent Li.sub.3.5 AgV.sub.2 O.sub.5.5 ; about 3 weight percent Teflon powder; about 2 weight percent graphite powder, and about 1 weight percent carbon.
An electrochemical cell produced according to the process of claim 2, said cell further comprising an anode comprised of lithium, an electrolyte comprised of a solution of 1M LiAsF.sub.6 as a lithium salt and 1:1 volume:volume mixture of propylene carbonate/dimethoxyethane as an organic solvent, wherein when newly assembled, said said cell has an initial open circuit voltage of about 3.1 to 3.3V.
Electron acceptor substituted carbons for use as anodes in rechargeable  lithium batteries
A battery using carbonaceous materials with a graphite or disordered graphite structure wherein boron atoms are substituted for carbon atoms in the structure.
The electrochemical potential of the carbonaceous materials is shifted as a result of such substitution, and the electrochemical capacity is increased.
Both effects are desirable for anode materials in lithium ion type batteries.
A lithium ion battery comprising a carbonaceous anode, a cathode and an electrolyte wherein the electroactive material of the anode has an electroactive graphite or disordered graphite structure wherein boron atoms have been substituted for corresponding carbon atoms in said structure, said material having the form B.sub.z C.sub.1-z, wherein z is a number in the range from greater than 0 and less than or equal to about 0.17.
A battery as claimed in claim 1 wherein z is a number in the range from greater than about 0.08 and less than or equal to about 0.17.
A battery as claimed in claim 2 wherein the cathode comprises lithiated transition metal oxides, and the electrolyte comprises lithium salts in a mixture of propylene carbonate and ethylene carbonate solvents.
A battery as claimed in claim 1 wherein the cathode comprises lithiated transition metal oxides, and the electrolyte comprises lithium salts in a mixture of propylene carbonate and ethylene carbonate solvents.
A battery as claimed in claim 1 wherein the cathode comprises lithiated transition metal oxides, and the electrolyte comprises LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2 salt in a mixture of propylene carbonate and ethylene carbonate solvents.
A lithium ion battery comprising a cathode, a carbonaceous anode and an electrolyte wherein the electroactive material of the anode comprises an electroactive graphite or disordered graphite structure wherein boron atoms have been substituted for corresponding carbon atoms in said structure, said material having the form B.sub.z C.sub.1-z, wherein z is a number in the range from greater than 0 and less than or equal to about 0.17, and a layer spacing (002) of said material as determined by wide angle x-ray diffraction is in the range from greater than or equal to 337.ANG.
and less than or equal to 3.45.ANG.. 7.
A battery as claimed in claim 6 wherein the layer spacing (002) of said material is in the range from greater than or equal to 3.37 .ANG.
and less than or equal to 3.41 .ANG.. 8.
A method of causing a shift in potential in a carbonaceous anode material of a lithium ion battery, said anode material having an electroactive graphite or disordered graphite structure, which method consists essentially of substituting boron atoms for corresponding carbon atoms in said structure, so that said structure consists of a boron substituted carbon of the form B.sub.z C.sub.1-z, wherein z is a number in the range from greater than zero and less than or equal to about 0.17, thereby causing a positive shift in potential of the substituted anode material relative to that of an unsubstituted anode.
A method as in claim 8 wherein said carbonaceous anode material is prepared by chemical vapor deposition.
Secondary lithium battery using a new layered anode material
An improved lithium secondary battery using a novel layered titanium phosphate having the formula of TiO(OH)(H.sub.2 PO.sub.4), or LTP, as anode material, and LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, or other appropriate material, as cathode.
A stable operating voltage of 3-volt can be obtained from the resultant lithium secondary battery.
The layered titanium phosphate is prepared by first reacting a tetramethylammonium hydroxide (N(CH.sub.3).sub.4 OH) solution containing orthophosphoric acid with titanium dioxide in a low temperature hydrothermal reaction to form a tetramethylammonium form of layered titanium phosphate, or NMe.sub.4 TP, which serves as the precursor of LTP.
The precursor NMe.sub.4 TP is then placed in a concentrated hydrochloric acid at room temperature to obtain a high purity LTP via a cation exchange reaction.
Each of the Li.sub.x LTP chemical unit, which is formed after the intercalation of LTP with lithium ions, can contain two lithium ions, thus excellent lithium intercalation characteristic can be achieved as a result.
Furthermore, no lithium dendrites are formed during the recharging operation which tend to puncture the partition membranae separating the anode and the cathode; therefore, the secondary lithium battery allows a safe recharging operation to be maintained.
A secondary lithium battery comprising: (a) a cathode; (b) an electrolyte solution or a solid electrolyte; (c) an anode containing a layered titanium phosphate represented by the formula of TiO(OH)(H.sub.2 PO.sub.4).
The secondary lithium secondary battery according to claim 1 wherein said anode containing about 85 wt % of said layered titanium phosphate, about 5 wt % of acetylene black, and about 10 wt % of polyvinylidene fluoride.
The secondary lithium secondary battery according to claim 1 wherein said cathode containing about 85 wt % LiCoO.sub.2 powder, 5 wt % acetylene black, and 10 wt % polyvinylidene fluoride.
The secondary lithium secondary battery according to claim 1 wherein said cathode containing about 85 wt % LiNiO.sub.2 powder, 5 wt % acetylene black, and 10 wt % polyvinylidene fluoride.
The secondary lithium secondary battery according to claim 1 wherein said electrolyte solution containing about 1M LiClO.sub.4 dissolved in a 1:1 mixture solvent of ethylene carbonate and dimethyl carbonate.
The secondary lithium secondary battery according to claim 1 wherein said electrolyte solution containing about 1M LiClO.sub.4 dissolved in a 1:1 mixture solvent of propylene carbonate and diethyl carbonate.
The secondary lithium battery according to claim 1 wherein said layered titanium phosphate is prepared from a process comprising the following steps: (a) preparing a reaction mixture containing tetramethylammonium hydroxide, orthophosphoric acid, and titanium dioxide in a molar ratio of X:Y:1, wherein Y.gtoreq.1 and (0.25 Y).ltoreq.X.ltoreq.1; (b) reacting said reaction mixture to form a tetramethylammonium form of layered titanium phosphate; and (c) placing said tetramethylammonium form of layered titanium phosphate in a concentrated hydrochloric acid to effectuate a cation exchange reaction and form said hydrogen form of layered titanium phosphate.
The secondary lithium secondary battery according to claim 7 wherein said reaction in step (b) being conducted in a sealed pressure reactor at a temperature above 150.degree.
C. 9.
The secondary lithium secondary battery according to claim 7 wherein said ion exchange reaction in step (c) being conducted in hydrochloric acid at room temperature.
A method to prepare a layered titanium phosphate for use as an anode material in a secondary lithium secondary battery wherein said hydrogen form of layered titanium phosphate is represented by the formula of TiO(OH)(H.sub.2 PO.sub.4), and said method comprising the following steps: (a) preparing a reaction mixture containing tetramethylammonium hydroxide, orthophosphoric acid, and titanium dioxide in a molar ratio of X:Y:1, wherein Y.gtoreq.1 and (0.25 Y).ltoreq.X.ltoreq.1; (b) reacting said reaction mixture to form a tetramethylammonium form of layered titanium phosphate; and (c) placing said tetramethylammonium form of layered titanium phosphate in a concentrated hydrochloric acid to effectuate a cation exchange reaction and form said hydrogen form of layered titanium phosphate.
The method to prepare a hydrogen form of layered titanium phosphate for use as an anode material in a secondary lithium secondary battery according to claim 10 wherein said reaction in step (b) being conducted in a sealed pressure reactor at a temperature above 150.degree.
C. 12.
The method to prepare a hydrogen form of layered titanium phosphate for use as an anode material in a secondary lithium secondary battery according to claim 10 wherein said ion exchange reaction in step (c) being conducted in hydrochloric acid at room temperature.
Carbonaceous insertion compounds and use as anodes in rechargeable  batteries
Carbonaceous insertion compounds and methods for preparation are described wherein the compounds comprise a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host and atoms of an element capable of alloying with alkali metal atoms, the alloying atoms being incorporated predominantly as monodispersed atoms in the host.
A carbonaceous insertion compound with large reversible capacity for lithium can be prepared if the alloying atoms incorporated are Si.
Such insertion compounds can be prepared by simple pyrolysis of suitable polymers containing silicon and carbon at an appropriate temperature.
These insertion compounds may be suitable for use as high capacity anodes in lithium ion batteries.
A carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: (a) a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host C; (b) atoms of an alkali metal A inserted into the host C, the amount of metal A being in a range from greater than or equal to zero; and (c) atoms of an element B selected from the group consisting of Al, Bi, Cd, Pb, Sb, and Sn incorporated into the host C, the amount of element B being greater than zero, wherein element B alloys with metal A and the atoms of element B are incorporated predominantly as monodispersed atoms in the host C; wherein said carbonaceous insertion compound has a reversible specific capacity for said alkali metal greater than graphite.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein the structure of the compound is predominantly disorganized.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein A is Li.
A silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound prepared by pyrolyzing a polymer containing silicon and carbon wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature above the decomposition temperature of the polymer and below the minimum of the temperatures for forming SiC or SiO.sub.2 from the pyrolyzed polymer, wherein the polymer is selected from the group consisting of poly(silmethylenes), poly(siloxane-silphenylenes), polysilanes, polyphenylsesquisiloxanes and poly(silphenylenes), and said silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound has a reversible specific capacity for alkali metal greater than graphite.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 4, wherein the pyrolysis is performed under an inert atmosphere.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 4 wherein the polymer is a poly(silmethylene).
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 4 wherein the polymer ms a polysilane.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 4 wherein the polymer is a poly(silphenylene).
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 4 wherein the polymer containing silicon and carbon to be pyrolyzed has the formula Si.sub.y' C.sub.1-y' O.sub.z' H.sub.n' wherein O is oxygen, H is hydrogen, and y',z',n' are numbers; y' being in the range from greater than zero to less than about 0.3; and the ratio z'/y' being less than or equal to about 1.5.
The carbonaceous insertion compound of claim 4, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of poly(simethylenes), polysilanes and poly(silphenylenes).
A process for preparing a carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: (a) a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host C; (b) atoms of an alkali metal A inserted into the host C, the amount of metal A being in the range from greater than or equal to zero; and (c) atoms of an element B selected from the group consisting of Al, Bi, Cd, Pb, Sb and Sn incorporated into the host C, the amount of element B being greater than zero, wherein element B alloys with metal A and the Atoms of element B are incorporate predominantly as monodispersed atoms in the host C, said process comprising: pyrolyzing a polymer containing the elements B and carbon wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature above the decomposition temperature of the polymer and below the minimum of the temperatures for forming a carbide or oxide of the element B from the pyrolyzed polymer, so that a carbonaceous insertion compound is obtained having a reversible specific capacity for said alkali metal greater than graphite.
A process for preparing a silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: (a) a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host C; (b) atoms of an alkali metal A inserted into the host C, the amount of the metal A being in a range from greater than or equal to zero; and (c) Si atoms incorporated into the host C predominantly as monodispersed atoms in the host C, said process comprising: pyrolyzing a polymer containing silicon and carbon and selected from the group consisting of poly(silmethylenes), poly(siloxane-silphenylenes), polysilanes, polyphenylsesquisiloxanes and poly(silphenylenes) at a temperature above the decomposing temperature of the polymer and below the minimum of the temperatures for forming SiC or SiO.sub.2 from the pyrolyzed polymer, so that a silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound is obtained having a reversible specific capacity for said alkali metal greater than graphite.
The process of claim 12, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of poly(simethylenes), polysilanes and poly(silphenylenes).
A process as claimed in claim 12 wherein the polymer is polyphenylsesquisiloxane.
A process as claimed in claim 14, wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature above about 500.degree.
C. 16.
A process as claimed in claim 15, wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature about 1000.degree.
C. 17.
A process as claimed in claim 11, 12, or 14 wherein the pyrolysis is performed under an inert atmosphere.
The process as claimed in claim 12, wherein the polymer has the formula A.sub.x Si.sub.y C.sub.1-y O.sub.z H.sub.n wherein O is oxygen, H is hydrogen and x, y, z, n are numbers; x being greater than zero; y being in the range from greater than zero to less than about 0.3; the ratio z/y being greater than or equal to zero and less than or equal to about 1.5; and n being less than about 0.3.
An electrochemical device comprising an electrode wherein a portion of the electrode comprises a carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: (a) a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host C; (b) atoms of an alkali metal A inserted into the host C, the amount of metal A being in a range from greater than or equal to zero; and (c) atoms of an element B selected from the group consisting of Al, Bi, Cd, Pb, Sb, and Sn incorporated into the host C, the amount of element B being greater than zero, wherein element B alloys with metal A and the atoms of element B are incorporated predominantly as monodispersed atoms in the host C; wherein said carbonaceous insertion compound has a reversible specific capacity for said alkali metal greater than graphite.
A battery comprising an electrode wherein a portion of the electrode comprises a carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: (a) a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host C; (b) atoms of an alkali metal A inserted into the host C, the amount of metal A being in a range from greater than or equal to zero; and (c) atoms of an element B selected from the group consisting of Al, Bi, Cd, Pb, Sb and Sn incorporated into the host C, the amount of element B being greater than zero, wherein element B alloys with metal A and the atoms of element B are incorporated predominantly as monodispersed atoms in the host C; wherein said carbonaceous insertion compound has a reversible specific capacity for said alkali metal greater than graphite.
A non-aqueous battery comprising: (a) a cathode comprising a lithium insertion compound; (b) a non-aqueous electrolyte comprising a lithium salt dissolved in a mixture of non-aqueous solvents; and (c) an anode comprising a carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: (1) a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host C; (2) atoms of an alkali metal A inserted into the host C, the amount of metal A being in a range from greater than or equal to zero; and (3) atoms of an element B selected from the group consisting of Al, Bi, Cd, Pb, Sb and Sn incorporated into the host C, the amount of element B being greater than zero, wherein element B alloys with metal A and the atoms of element B are incorporated predominantly as monodispersed atoms in the host C, wherein the alkali metal A is Li and said carbonaceous insertion compound has a reversible specific capacity for Li greater than graphite.
An electrochemical device comprising an electrode wherein a portion of the electrode comprises a silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound prepared by pyrolyzing a polymer containing silicon and carbon wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature above the decomposition temperature of the polymer and below the minimum of the temperatures for forming SiC or SiO.sub.2 from the pyrolyzed polymer, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of poly(Simethylenes), poly(siloxane-silphenylenes), polysilanes, polyphenylsesquisilioxanes and poly(silphenylenes, wherein said silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound has a reversible specific capacity for alkali metal greater than graphite.
The electrochemical device of claim 22, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of poly(simethylenes), polysilanes and poly(silphenylenes).
A battery comprising an electrode wherein a portion of the electrode comprises a silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound prepared by pyrolyzing a polymer containing silicon and carbon wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature above the decomposition temperature of the polymer and below the minimum of the temperatures for forming SiC or SiO.sub.2 from the pyrolyzed polymer, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of poly(simethylenes), poly(siloxane-silphenylenes), polysilanes, polyphenylsesquisiloxanes and poly(silphenylenes), wherein said silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound has a reversible specific capacity for alkali metal greater than graphite.
The battery of claim 24, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of poly(simethylenes), polysilanes and poly(silphenylenes).
A non-aqueous battery comprising: (a) a cathode comprising a lithium insertion compound; (b) a non-aqueous electrolyte comprising a lithium salt dissolved in a mixture of non-aqueous solvent; and (c) an anode comprising a silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound prepared by pyrolyzing a polymer containing silicon and carbon wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature above the decomposition temperature of the polymer and below the minimum of the temperatures for forming SiC or SiO.sub.2 from the pyrolyzed polymer, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of poly(simethylenes), poly(siloxane-silphenylenes), polysilanes, polyphenylsesquisiloxanes and poly(silphenylenes), and wherein said silicon-containing carbonaceous insertion compound has a reversible specific capacity for alkali metal greater than graphite.
The non-aqueous battery of claim 26, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of poly(simethylenes), polysilanes and poly(silphenylenes).
A method of operating an electrochemical device comprising an electrode, wherein a portion of the electrode comprises a carbonaceous insertion compound, wherein said carbonaceous insertion compound comprises: (a) a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host C; and (b) atoms of an element B incorporated predominantly as monodispersed atoms into said host C, the amount of the element B being greater than zero, and the element B being capable of forming alloys with an alkali metal and selected from the group consisting of Al, Bi, Cd, Pb, Sb, Si and Sn, wherein said method includes the step of: repeatedly electrochemically reversibly inserting atoms of an alkali metal into said carbonaceous insertion compound in an amount effective to provide a reversible specific capacity for said electrochemical device greater than 372 mAh per gram of said carbonaceous insertion compound.
A method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the structure of said carbonaceous insertion compound is predominantly disorganized.
A method as claimed in claim 28, wherein said carbonaceous insertion compound has the formula Si.sub.y C.sub.1-y O.sub.x H.sub.n, wherein O is oxygen, H is hydrogen, and y, z, n are numbers; y being in the range from greater than zero to less than about 0.3; the ratio z/y being greater than or equal to zero and less than or equal to about 1.5; and n being less than about 0.3.
A method as claimed in claim 28, wherein said alkali metal is Li.
A method as claimed in claim 28, wherein said carbonaceous insertion compound is prepared by pyrolyzing a polymer containing silicon and carbon at a temperature above the decomposition temperature of the polymer and below the minimum of the temperatures for forming SiC or SiO.sub.2 from the pyrolyzed polymer.
A method as claimed in claim 32; wherein the polymer is selected from the group of siloxanes having the formula ##STR3## wherein R, R', R", and R'" are alkyl, aryl or ligands.
A method as claimed in claim 33, wherein R and R' are methyl and R" and R'" are phenyl.
A method as claimed in claim 34, wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature above or equal to about 900.degree.
C. and below or equal to about 1100.degree.
C. 36.
A method as claimed in claim 32, wherein the polymer is polyphenylsesquisiloxane.
A method as claimed in claim 36, wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature above about 500.degree.
C. 38.
A method as claimed in claim 37, wherein the pyrolysis is performed at a temperature about 1000.degree.
C. 39.
A method as claimed in claim 33, 34 or 36, wherein the pyrolysis is performed under an inert atmosphere.
A method as claimed in claim 32, wherein the polymer is a poly(siloxane-silphenylene).
A method as claimed in claim 32, wherein the polymer is a poly(silmethylene).
A method as claimed in claim 32, wherein the polymer is a polysilane.
A method as claimed in claim 32, wherein the polymer is a poly(silphenylene).
A method as claimed in claim 32, wherein the polymer containing silicon and carbon to be pyrolyzed has the formula Si.sub.y' C.sub.1-y' O.sub.z' H.sub.n' wherein O is oxygen, H is hydrogen and y', z', n' are numbers; y' being in the range from greater than zero to less than about 0.3; and the ratio z'/y' being less than or equal to about 1.5.
A method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the electrochemical device is a battery.
A method as claimed in claim 45, wherein the battery is non-aqueous and comprises: a cathode comprising a lithium insertion compound; a non-aqueous electrolyte comprising a lithium salt dissolved in a mixture of non-aqueous solvents; and an anode comprising the carbonaceous insertion compound, wherein said alkali metal is Li.
Aqueous electrochemical preparation of insertion compounds and use in  non-aqueous rechargeable batteries
Insertion compounds that are not stable in pure water can be prepared by an aqueous electrochemical method.
The pH of the electrolyte and/or the concentration of ions of the inserted species must be sufficiently high to provide stability for the product compound.
The method is useful for further lithiation of conventional lithium ion battery cathode materials.
A method for preparing insertion compounds which are unstable in pure water wherein an amount of an alkali metal or an alkaline earth metal is inserted into a first insertion compound thereby forming a second insertion compound which is unstable in pure water, comprising: a) preparing in an electrochemical cell having a working electrode collector, a counter electrode, and a basic aqueous electrolyte, the electrolyte comprising a salt of said alkali metal or alkaline earth metal dissolved in water wherein the dissolved alkali metal or alkaline earth metal is at a starting concentration and the electrolyte is at a starting pH; b) electrically contacting said first insertion compound to the working electrode collector thereby forming a working electrode; c) charging said cell such that electrons and ions of said alkali metal or alkaline earth metal are supplied to the working electrode thereby inserting an amount of the alkali metal or alkaline earth metal in the first insertion compound and thereby forming the second insertion compound which is less stable in pure water than said first insertion compound, such that degradation of said second insertion compound will occur upon exposure to pure water; d) maintaining the concentration of the dissolved alkali metal or alkaline earth metal in the electrolyte between the starting concentration and a final concentration; the final concentration being greater than zero, and such that the second insertion compound is stable in the electrolyte; e) maintaining the pH of the electrolyte between the starting pH and a final pH; the final pH being a value such that the concentration of H.sup.+ in the electrolyte is at least an order of magnitude less than said final concentration, whereby the electrolyte provides greater stability than that provided by pure water, and such that the second insertion compound is stable in the electrolyte; and f) isolating the second insertion compound from the electrolyte after insertion of the amount of the alkali metal or alkaline earth metal in the first insertion compound to form the second insertion compound is complete.
A method as in claim 1 wherein the final concentration of the dissolved element in the electrolyte is greater than about 10.sup.-4 moles per liter.
A method as in claim 1 wherein the final pH of the electrolyte is greater than 7.
A method as in claim 1 wherein the final pH of the electrolyte is greater than about 10.
A method as in claim 1 wherein the first insertion compound is a lithium insertion compound.
A method as in claim 5 wherein the first insertion compound is a lithium transition metal oxide.
A method as in claim 6 wherein the first insertion compound is a lithium manganese oxide.
A method as in claim 7 wherein the element is lithium, the first insertion compound is the spinel LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4, and the second insertion compound is Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 wherein x is a number and 1<x.ltoreq.2.
A method as in claim 7 wherein the element is lithium, the first insertion compound is Li.sub.y MnO.sub.2 with a .gamma.-MnO.sub.2 structure wherein y is a number between about 0.2 and 4.5, and the second insertion compound is Li.sub.x MnO.sub.2 wherein x is a number and y<x.ltoreq.
about 1.
A method as in claim 9 wherein the second insertion compound is Li.sub.x MnO.sub.2 having a layered structure described by the space group P-3m1.
A method as in claim 1 wherein the electrical contact is intermittent or continuous.
A method as in claim 1 wherein the salt is a hydroxide of said element.
A method as in claim 12 wherein the salt is lithium hydroxide.
A method as in claim 1 wherein the concentration of the dissolved element is maintained by further addition of said salt to the electrolyte.
A method as in claim 1 wherein the pH of the electrolyte is maintained by further addition of said salt to the electrolyte.
A method as in claim 1 wherein the isolation comprises rinsing the second insertion compound in a solvent and drying the compound thereafter.
A method as in claim 16 wherein the solvent is alcohol.
Composite carbon/polymer electrode for a rechargeable electrochemical  lithium cell
A composite carbon/polymer electrode for a rechargeable electrochemical lithium cell comprises a powder of carbonaceous material and a coating polymer rendered ionically conductive by the addition of a lithium salt, and possibly carbon black or carbon fibers.
The carbonaceous material has a proportion of volatile matter between 5 and 22 wt %, and is preferably a raw coke or a semi-coke.
A composite carbon/polymer electrode for a rechargeable lithium cell comprising a carbonaceous material and a coating polymer rendered ionically conductive by the addition of a lithium salt, said carbonaceous material containing an amount of volatile matter between 5 and 22 wt %.
The electrode according to claim 1, wherein said amount of volatile matter is between 10 and 22%.
The electrode according to claim 1, wherein said carbonaceous material is a semi-coke.
The electrode according to claim 1, wherein said carbonaceous material is a raw coke.
The electrode according to claim 1, wherein said carbonaceous material is a powder of average particle size less than or equal to 10 .mu.m.
The electrode according to claim 1, wherein said carbonaceous material is pre-lithiated.
The electrode according to claim 1, additionally comprising carbon black or carbon fibers.
The electrode according to claim 1, wherein said coating polymer is a polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), a polyoxyethylene (POE), a polyethylene (PE) or a polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE).
The electrode according to claim 1, wherein the lithium salt contains a peroxidized or perfluorinated anion.
The electrode according to claim 9, wherein the lithium salt is LiClO.sub.4 or LiC.sub.a F.sub.2a+1 SO.sub.3, where n=1-6.
A rechargeable electrochemical lithium cell comprising an electrolyte, a negative electrode and a positive electrode with a base of transition metal oxide selected from the group consisting of lithiated oxides of cobalt, nickel, manganese, vanadium, and mixtures thereof, said negative electrode comprising a composite carbon/polymer electrode comprising a carbonaceous material and a coating polymer rendered ionically conductive by the addition of a lithium salt, said carbonaceous material containing and amount of volatile matter between 5 an 22 wt %.
The cell according to claim 11, wherein said electrolyte is a non-aqueous liquid solvent rendered conductive by the addition of a lithium salt.
The cell according to claim 12, wherein said non-aqueous solvent comprises a mixture of ethers and/or esters, the esters being selected from the group consisting of linear carbonates and the cyclic carbonates.
The cell according to claim 11, wherein said electrolyte is a solid polymer rendered conductive by the addition of a lithium salt.
The cell according to claim 14, wherein said solid polymer is a polyether, a polyester, a polymethoxyethoxyphosphazene (MEEP) or a polydialkylsiloxane.
The cell according to claim 11, wherein said electrolyte is a polymer in gel form rendered conductive by the addition of a lithium salt.
The cell according to claim 16, wherein said polymer in gel form comprises a polyacrylonitrile (PAN) and an ethylene carbonate and/or a propylene carbonate.
Electrodes for lithium ion batteries using polysilazanes ceramic with  lithium
A lithium ion battery electrode formed by the pyrolysis of a silazane polymer followed by introducing lithium ions.
These electrodes can be used to form batteries with large capacities, low irreversible capacity, high density and good safety behavior.
A method of forming an electrode material for a lithium ion battery comprising: (A) pyrolyzing a composition comprising a silazane polymer to form a ceramic material; and (B) introducing lithium ions into the ceramic material to form an electrode material.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the silazane polymer is cured prior to pyrolysis.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the silazane polymer is pyrolyzed at a temperature in the range of 700.degree.
to 1400.degree.
C. at a rate of heating less than about 10.degree.
C./minute.
The method of claim 1 wherein the ceramic material is formed into a powder, the powder blended with a binder and a diluent to form a mixture and the mixture formed into the desired shape of the electrode before the lithium ions are introduced.
The method of claim 1 wherein pyrolysis of the silazane polymer produces a ceramic material containing at least 0.5 weight percent excess carbon.
The method of claim 1 wherein the silazane polymer has a char yield greater than about 50 weight percent.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the silazane polymer also contains a curing agent.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the silazane polymer also contains a carbonaceous material.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the silazane polymer also contains a filler.
The method of claim 1 wherein the silazane polymer is a copolymer with a polymer selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, siloxanes, silanes, and organic polymers.
The method of claim 1 wherein the silazane polymer is blended with a polymer selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, siloxanes, silanes, and organic polymers.
In a rechargeable lithium ion battery, the improvement comprising: an anode which comprises a material formed by: (A) pyrolyzing a composition comprising a silazane polymer to produce a ceramic material; and (B) introducing lithium ions into the ceramic material to form an anode.
The battery of claim 12 wherein the silazane polymer is pyrolyzed at a temperature in the range of 700.degree.
to 1400.degree.
C. at a rate of heating less than about 10.degree.
C./minute to produce a ceramic material containing at least 0.5 weight percent excess carbon and a char yield greater than about 50 weight percent.
The battery of claim 13 wherein the composition comprising the silazane polymer also contains at least one material selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, siloxanes, silanes, organic polymers, fillers, curing agents and carbonaceous materials.
The battery of claim 13 wherein the silazane polymer is copolymerized with a material selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, siloxanes, silanes and organic polymers.
An electrode material for a lithium ion battery comprising a material of the structure: wherein x=0 to 4, y=0 to 1000 and Z=0 to 40 and wherein lithium ions are incorporated therein.
The electrode material of claim 16 wherein x=0.1 to 2.0, y=0.1 to 100, z=0.1 to 1.5 and wherein lithium ions are incorporated therein.
The electrode material of claim 16 in the form of an electrode for a lithium ion battery.
In a method of making a rechargeable lithium ion battery, the improvement comprising making an anode by a process comprising: (A) pyrolyzing a composition comprising a silazane polymer to produce a ceramic material; and (B) introducing lithium ions into the ceramic material to form an anode.
Thin film lithium polymer battery
A solid state electrochemical cell comprising: (a) an electrolyte comprising a polymeric matrix, an inorganic salt and a solvent; (b) an anode comprising a thin film of lithium metal or an alloy thereof; and (c) a cathode comprising a polymeric matrix, a conductive carbon and a metal salt, M.sub.2 ZO.sub.4, wherein M is Ag or Cu and Z is W, Mo or Cr.
A solid state electrochemical cell comprising: (a) an electrolyte comprising a polymeric matrix, an inorganic salt and a solvent; (b) an anode comprising a thin film of lithium metal or an alloy thereof; and (c) a cathode comprising a polymeric matrix, a conductive carbon and a metal salt, M.sub.2 ZO.sub.4, wherein M is Ag or Cu and Z is W, Mo or Cr.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said electrolyte comprises about 15-25 weight percent polymeric matrix, about 70-80 weight percent solvent and about 3-10 weight percent salt.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said polymeric matrix in said electrolyte is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene oxide, polypropylene oxide, polyacrylonitrile, polyethyleneimine, polyepichlorohydrin, polymethylmethacrylate and polyethylene succinate.
The cell of claim 3 wherein said polymeric matrix is polyacrylonitrile.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said salt in said electrolyte is selected from the group consisting of LiClO.sub.4, LiI, LiSCN, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2, LiPF.sub.6, NaI and NaSCN.
The cell of claim 5 wherein said salt is LiClO.sub.4.
The cell of claim 5 wherein said solvent in said electrolyte is a mixture of propylene carbonate and ethylene carbonate.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said cathode comprises about 70-80 weight percent of said metal salt, about 3-10 weight percent conductive carbon and about 15-25 weight percent polymeric matrix.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said polymeric matrix in said cathode is polyvinylchloride.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said metal salt in said cathode is Ag.sub.2 WO.sub.4.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said metal salt in said cathode is CuWO.sub.4.
Lithium copper oxide cathode for lithium cells and batteries
The invention provides a rechargeable lithium battery which comprises an electrolyte; a negative electrode having a compatible active material; and a positive electrode comprising a lithium copper oxide intercalation compound.
The positive electrode active material is characterized by an ability to deintercalate lithium ions for intercalation into the negative electrode active material.
The lithium copper oxide has a proportion of 2 lithium ions per formula unit of the copper oxide and upon electrochemical interaction with a negative electrode deintercalates lithium ions whereupon the proportion of lithium ions per copper oxide formula unit is less than 2.
The lithium copper oxide is a compound represented by the nominal general formula Li.sub.2 CuO.sub.2.
The lithium copper oxide compound is alternatively represented by the nominal general formula Li.sub.2-x CuO.sub.2, signifying its capability to deintercalate lithium.
A lithium ion battery which comprises a positive electrode and negative electrode, said negative electrode comprising an intercalation active material, and said positive electrode comprising an active material consisting of lithium copper oxide.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said lithium copper oxide is represented by the nominal formula Li.sub.2-x CuO.sub.2 and deintercalates a quantity x of lithium ions for transfer to said negative electrode, where x is greater than 0 and less than or equal to 2.
The battery according to claim 2 where during cycling (charge and discharge) the value of x lithium ions transfer between said electrodes varies as 0<x<2.
The battery according to claim 3 where during cycling (charge and discharge) the value of x varies as 0<x<1.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said negative electrode intercalation active material is selected from the group consisting of a transition metal oxide, metal chalcogenide, carbon, graphite, and mixtures thereof.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said negative electrode intercalation active material comprises graphite.
The battery according to claim 1 further comprising an electrolyte interposed between said positive electrode and said negative electrode, said electrolyte comprising a salt of lithium in a non-aqueous (aprotic) solvent.
A reversible lithium battery which comprises an electrolyte; a negative electrode having an active material; and a positive electrode comprising an active material consisting of a lithium copper oxide intercalation compound characterized by an ability to deintercalate lithium ions for transfer to said negative electrode active material on charging of said battery and to intercalate said ions on discharge of said battery.
The battery according to claim 8 wherein said lithium copper oxide has a proportion of 2 lithium ions per formula unit of copper oxide; whereupon during deintercalation the proportion of lithium ions per said formula unit is less than 2.
The battery according to claim 8 wherein said lithium copper oxide is a compound represented by the nominal formula Li.sub.2 CuO.sub.2.
The battery according to claim 8 wherein said lithium copper oxide is represented by the nominal formula Li.sub.x CuO.sub.2 where in an initial or uncharged state x is 2; and in a fully or partially charged state represented by said nominal formula Li.sub.x CuO.sub.2 where x is less than 2 and is greater than or equal to 0.
The battery according to claim 8 which does not contain metallic lithium.
The battery according to claim 8 further comprising an electrolyte interposed between said positive electrode and said negative electrode, said electrolyte comprising a salt of lithium in a non-aqueous (aprotic) solvent.
A method for operating an electrochemical cell comprising: a. providing first electrode composition comprising an active material consisting of lithium copper oxide, a counter-electrode to said first electrode, and an electrolyte therebetween; b. electrochemically deintercalating lithium ions from the lithium copper oxide and transferring said ions to the counter-electrode to charge said cell; and then c. electrochemically removing at least a portion of said transferred lithium ions from said counter-electrode for reintercalation into said lithium copper oxide whereupon electrochemical energy is obtained from the cell during discharge.
The method according to claim 14 wherein said lithium copper oxide has a proportion of 2 lithium ions per formula unit of copper oxide; whereupon during deintercalation the proportion of lithium ions per said formula unit is less than 2.
The method according to claim 14 wherein said lithium copper oxide is a compound represented by the nominal formula Li.sub.2 CuO.sub.2.
The method according to claim 14 where in step (a) said lithium copper oxide is represented by the nominal formula Li.sub.x CuO.sub.2 where in an initial or uncharged state x is 2; wherein after step (b) and before step (c) said lithium copper oxide is represented by said nominal formula where x is less than 2 and greater than or equal to 0; and wherein after step (c), steps (b) and (c) are repeated in sequence.
The battery according to claim 14 wherein said lithium copper oxide is represented by the nominal formula Li.sub.2-x CuO.sub.2 and deintercalates a quantity x of lithium ions for transfer to said negative electrode, where x is greater than 0 and less than or equal to 2.
The battery according to claim 18 where during cycling (charge and discharge) the value of x lithium ions transfer between said electrodes varies as 0<x<2.
The battery according to claim 19 where during cycling (charge and discharge) the value of x varies as 0<x<1.
Lithium manganese oxy-fluorides for li-ion rechargeable battery  electrodes
The cycling stability and capacity of li-ion rechargeable batteries are improved by the use of lithium manganese oxy-fluoride electrode component intercalation materials having the general formula, Li.sub.1+x M.sub.y Mn.sub.2-x-y O.sub.4-z F.sub.z, where M is a transition metal, e.g., Co, Cr, or Fe, and x.ltoreq.0.4, y.ltoreq.0.3, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1.0.
A lithium manganese oxy-fluoride compound having the general formula, Li.sub.1+x M.sub.y Mn.sub.2-x-y O.sub.4-z F.sub.z, where M is a transition metal and x.ltoreq.0.4, y.ltoreq.0.3, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1.0.
A compound according to claim 1 where M is Co, Cr, or Fe.
A compound according to claim 2 where x.ltoreq.0.2, y=0, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.4.
A compound according to claim 2 where 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.2, y=0, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.4.
A compound according to claim 2 where 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.2, y=0, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.2.
A compound according to claim 2 where 0.05.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.2, y.ltoreq.0.3, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.2.
A rechargeable battery cell comprising a positive electrode, a negative electrode, and a separator disposed therebetween characterized in that said positive electrode comprises an intercalation compound having the general formula, Li.sub.1+x M.sub.y Mn.sub.2-x-y O.sub.4-z F.sub.z, where M is a transition metal and x.ltoreq.0.4, y.ltoreq.0.3, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1.0.
A rechargeable battery cell according to claim 7 where M is Co, Cr, or Fe.
A rechargeable battery cell according to claim 8 where x.ltoreq.0.2, y=0, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.4.
A rechargeable battery cell according to claim 8 where 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.2, y=0, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.4.
A rechargeable battery cell according to claim 8 where 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.2, y=0, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.2.
A rechargeable battery cell according to claim 8 where 0.05.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.2, y.ltoreq.0.3, and 0.05.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.2.
Carbon anode for lithium ion electrochemical cell
Increasing the percentage of the 3R phase present in graphite reduces the first capacity loss of anodes employing the so modified graphite.
Conversion of 2H phase graphite to 3R phase graphite can be achieved by grinding graphite.
Non-aqueous solid electrochemical cells with improved performance can be fabricated by employing intercalation based carbon anodes comprising graphite with high percentage of 3R.
When employed in an electrochemical cell, the first cycle capacity loss of only about 10%.
A method of preparing an electrochemical cell and controlling the first cycle capacity loss of said electrochemical cell, which method comprises the steps of: (a) forming an intercalation based anode comprising graphite particles by a process comprising: (i) providing an initial graphite composition; (ii) measuring the percentage of 3R phase graphite present in said initial graphite composition; (iii) increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite in said initial graphite composition to form a second graphite composition which comprises graphite particles having an average diameter of less than 75 .mu.m; (b) providing a cathode; and (c) interposing a non-aqueous electrolyte containing a solvent and lithium salt between the anode and cathode.
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite comprises: converting graphite in the 2H phase to graphite in the 3R phase.
The method of claim 2 wherein the step of converting the graphite forms graphite particles in said second graphite composition wherein the percentage of 3R phase graphite is at least about 30 percent.
The method of claim 1 wherein the step of increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite comprises: grinding said initial graphite composition to convert graphite in the 2H phase to the 3R phase.
The method of claim 4 wherein grinding said initial graphite composition produces particles having an average diameter in the range of about 5 to about 15 .mu.m.
The method of claim 1 wherein the cathode comprises cathode active materials selected from lithiated cobalt oxides, lithiated manganese oxides, lithiated nickel oxides, lithiated vanadium oxides, and mixtures thereof.
A method of preparing an electrochemical cell and reducing the first capacity loss of said electrochemical cell, which method comprises the steps of: (a) forming an intercalation based anode comprising graphite particles by a process comprising: (i) providing an initial graphite composition; (ii) increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite present in said initial graphite composition to form a second graphite composition which comprises graphite wherein at least 20 percent of the graphite is 3R phase graphite; (b) providing a cathode; and (c) interposing a non-aqueous electrolyte containing a solvent and lithium salt between the anode and cathode and wherein the electrochemical cell has a first cycle loss of less than about 15% and a specific capacity of greater than 300 mAh/g.
The method of claim 7 wherein the step of increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite forms graphite particles wherein the percentage of 3R phase graphite is at least about 30 percent.
The method of claim 7 wherein the step of increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite comprises: grinding said initial graphite composition to convert graphite in the 2H phase to the 3R phase.
The method of claim 9 wherein grinding said initial graphite composition produces graphite particles having an average diameter in the range of about 5 to about 15 .mu.m.
The method of claim 7 wherein the cathode comprises cathode active materials selected from lithiated cobalt oxides, lithiated manganese oxides, lithiated nickel oxides, lithiated vanadium oxides, and mixtures thereof.
A method of preparing an intercalation based carbon anode comprising graphite particles and controlling the first cycle capacity loss when employed in an electrochemical cell, which method comprises the steps of: providing an initial graphite composition; measuring the percentage of 3R phase graphite present in said initial graphite composition; and increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite in said initial graphite composition to form a second graphite composition which comprises graphite particles having an average diameter of less than 75 .mu.m wherein the second graphite composition has a lower first cycle capacity loss than the initial graphite composition when employed in the electrochemical cell.
The method of claim 12 wherein the step of increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite comprises: converting graphite in the 2H phase to graphite in the 3R phase.
The method of claim 13 wherein the step of converting the graphite forms graphite particles in said second graphite composition wherein the percentage of 3R phase graphite is at least about 30 percent.
The method of claim 12 wherein the step of increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite particles comprises: grinding said graphite composition to convert graphite in the 2H phase to the 3R phase.
The method of claim 15 wherein grinding said initial graphite composition produces graphite particles having an average diameter in the range of about 5 to about 15 .mu.m.
A method of preparing an intercalation based carbon anode comprising graphite wherein the anode has less than about 10 percent first cycle capacity loss when employed in an electrochemical cell, which method comprises the steps of: providing an initial graphite composition; and increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite in said initial graphite composition to form a second graphite composition which comprises graphite wherein at least about 20 percent of the graphite is 3R phase graphite wherein the second graphite composition has a lower first cycle capacity loss than the initial graphite composition when employed in the electrochemical cell.
The method of claim 17 wherein the step of increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite forms graphite particles wherein the percentage of 3R phase graphite in the graphite particles is at least about 30 percent.
The method of claim 17 wherein the step of increasing the percentage of 3R phase graphite comprises: grinding said initial graphite composition to convert graphite in the 2H phase to the 3R phase.
The method of claim 19 wherein grinding said initial graphite composition produces graphite particles having an average diameter in the range of about 5 to about 15 .mu.m.
Method for preparing Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 for use in  lithium batteries
Spinel insertion compounds Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 wherein M is a transition metal, 0<x< about 0.33, 0.ltoreq.y<about 1, can have relatively low surface area at relatively large values of x when prepared with a novel two step heating method.
Li.sub.1 Mn.sub.2-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 is first prepared between a critical temperature, T.sub.c, and about 900.degree.
C. Then, a lithium salt is mixed therewith and reacted at a temperature between about 400.degree.
C. and T.sub.c.
These compounds are suitable for use as a cathode in a lithium battery.
The use of LiCl as the lithium salt can provide improved cycle life results in such a battery.
A methed for making an insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 wherein M is a transition metal, x is a number greater than zero and less than 0.33, y is a number greater than or equal to zero and less than about 1, the insertion compound having a spinel-phase crystal structure, and a maximum critical temperature for phase stability T.sub.c ; said method comprising selecting a process from the group consisting of: (a) (1) heating a stoichiometric mixture of a first lithium salt and a first manganese compound at a temperature in the range from greater than T.sub.c but less than about 900.degree.
C. so that an intermediate compound and having the approximate formula Li.sub.1 Mn.sub.2-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 and a spinel-phase crystal structure is obtained; (2) mixing a stoichiometric amount of the intermediate compound and a second lithium salt selected to obtain said insertion compound at a temperature less than T.sub.c ; and (3) heating the stoichiometric amount of said intermediate compound and said second lithium salt at a temperature in the range from greater than 400.degree.
C. to less than about T.sub.c so that said insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 is obtained; and (b) heating a stoichiometric mixture of LiCl and a second manganese compound at a reaction temperature in the range from greater than about 400.degree.
C. to less than about T.sub.c, so that said insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 is obtained.
A method for making an insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 wherein M is a transition metal, x is a number greater than zero and less than 0.33, y is a number greater than or equal to zero and less than about 1, the insertion compound having a spinel-phase crystal structure and a maximum critical temperature for phase stability T.sub.c, comprising: (a) heating a stoichiometric mixture of a first lithium salt and a first manganese compound at a temperature in the range from greater than T.sub.c but less than about 900.degree.
C. so that an intermediate compound having the approximate formula Li.sub.1 Mn.sub.2-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 and a spinel-phase crystal structure is obtained; (b) mixing a stoichiometric amount of the intermediate compound and a second lithium salt selected to obtain said insertion compound at a temperature less than T.sub.c ; and (c) heating the stoichiometric amount of said intermediate compound and said second lithium salt at a temperature in the range from greater than about 400.degree.
C. to less than about T.sub.c, so that said insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 is obtained.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein y is greater than zero and M is Ni.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein y is zero.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 4 wherein T.sub.c is approximately given by the equation: T.sub.c =(850-1250*x).degree.
C. 6.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 4 wherein x is greater than about 0.05 and less than about 0.2.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 6 wherein the final reaction temperature is in the range from greater than about 400.degree.
C. to less than about 790.degree.
C. 8.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein the intermediate reaction temperature is about 900.degree.
C. 9.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein the mixing temperature is ambient temperature.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein the intermediate reactant manganese compound is electrolytic manganese dioxide.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein the intermediate reactant lithium salt is Li.sub.2 CO.sub.3.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 2 wherein the final reactant lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of LiCl, LiF, and Li.sub.2 CO.sub.3.
A method for making an insertion compound Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 wherein M is a transition metal, x is a number greater than zero and less than 0.33, y is a number greater than or equal to zero and less than about 1, the insertion compound having a spinel-phase crystal structure and a maximum critical temperature for phase stability T.sub.c, comprising heating a stoichiometric mixture of LiCl and a first manganese compound at a reaction temperature in the range from greater than about 400.degree.
C. to less than about T.sub.c, so that the insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 is obtained.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 13 wherein y is zero.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 14 wherein T.sub.c is approximately given by the equation: T.sub.c =(850-1250*x).degree.
C. 16.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 14 wherein x is greater than about 0.1 and less than about 0.2.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 16 wherein the lattice parameter of the insertion compound is in the range from greater than about 8.18 .ANG.
to less than about 8.22 .ANG.. 18.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 16 wherein the final reaction temperature is in the range from greater than about 400.degree.
C. to less than about 725.degree.
C. 19.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 18 wherein the final stoichiometric mixture is heated at the final reaction temperature for at least 18 hours.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 13 wherein the manganese compound is an insertion compound intermediate having the approximate formula Li.sub.1 Mn.sub.2-y M.sub.y O.sub.4 and a spinel-phase crystal structure wherein the insertion compound intermediate is prepared by heating a stoichiometric mixture of lithium salt and a second manganese compound at a temperature greater than T.sub.c but less than about 900.degree.
C. 21.
A method for making an insertion compound as claimed in claim 20 wherein the intermediate stoichiometric mixture is heated at the intermediate reaction temperature for at least 18 hours.
A lithium battery comprising a lithium compound anode; an electrolyte comprising a solvent and a lithium electrolyte salt; and a cathode comprising an insertion compound prepared by the method as claimed in claims 1, 2, 5, 6, 13 or 20.
A lithium battery as claimed in claim 22 wherein the lithium compound anode is carbonaceous.
A lithium battery as claimed in claim 22 wherein the lithium electrolyte salt is selected from the group consisting of LiBF.sub.4 and LiPF.sub.6.
A lithium battery as claimed in claim 22 wherein the solvent comprises ethylene carbonate.
A lithium battery as claimed in claim 25 wherein the solvent additionally comprises a carbonate solvent selected from the group consisting of propylene carbonate, diethyl carbonate, and dimethyl carbonate.
Polyacetylene-lithium insertion compound, its use in a storage battery  and process for the preparation of insertion compounds of the conjugate  polymer-lithium type
The invention relates to a polyacetylene-lithium insertion compound, its use in a storage battery and a process for the preparation of polymer-lithium insertion compounds.
This insertion compound contains at least six CH groups per lithium atom and has a monoclinic structure.
Polymer-lithium compounds can be obtained by the compression of a polymer mixture, such as polyacetylene, and lithium, e.g.
under 30 to 250 MPa and at ambient temperature.
The compound can be used as a negative electrode (5) in a lithium storage battery having an oxide, sulphide or oxysulphide positive electrode (9) and a lithium ion-conducting electrolyte (8).
A polyacetylene-lithium insertion compound consisting of polyacetylene chains and lithium, wherein said insertion compound contains 6 CH groups per lithium atom and has a monoclinic structure.
The compound according to claim 1, having an electrical conductivity of approximately 250 S/cm.
A storage battery comprising a lithium-based negative electrode, a positive electrode and a lithium ion-conducting electrolyte, wherein said negative electrode is constituted by the polyacetylene-lithium insertion compound according to claim 1.
A process for the preparation of a polyacetylene-lithium insertion compound, consisting of the steps of: mixing a polyacetylene having a monoclinic structure with lithium, and compressing the thus obtained mixture.
A process according to claim 4, wherein said polyacetylene is in the form of powder, film, fibers, felt, fabric or foam.
A process according to claim 4, wherein said compressing takes place under a pressure of 30 to 10.sup.4 MPa.
A process according to claim 4, wherein said compressing takes place under a pressure of 30 to 250 MPa for 2 to 24 h. 8.
A process according to claim 4, wherein said polyacetylene and lithium quantities are such that they correspond to a Li(CH).sub.6 stoichiometry.
Non-aqueous battery with novel lithium manganese oxide cathode
Insertion compounds that are not stable in pure water can be prepared by an aqueous electrochemical method.
The pH of the electrolyte and/or the concentration of ions of the inserted species must be sufficiently high to provide stability for the product compound.
The method is useful for further lithiation of conventional lithium ion battery cathode materials.
A lithium manganese oxide material with formula Li.sub.x MnO.sub.2 wherein x is a number and 0.5<x.ltoreq.about 1, the material having a layered structure described by the space group P-3m1.
A material as in claim 1 wherein x is about 1 and the lattice constants of the layered structure are approximately a=3.321 .ANG.
and c=4.736 .ANG.. 3.
A non-aqueous battery comprising an anode, a non-aqueous electrolyte, and a cathode comprising the lithium manganese oxide material of claim 1.
The non-aqueous battery of claim 3, wherein said anode is selected from the group consisting of lithium, lithium alloys, carbonaceous insertion compounds and other insertion compounds.
The non-aqueous battery of claim 3, wherein said non-aqueous electrolyte comprises a lithium salt dissolved in a mixture of non-aqueous solvents.
The non-aqueous battery of claim 5, wherein said non-aqueous electrolyte comprises LiClO.sub.4 dissolved in a mixture of non-aqueous solvents.
The non-aqueous battery of claim 6, wherein said non-aqueous solvent is a mixture of DMC, PC and EC solvents.
The non-aqueous battery of claim 5, wherein said non-aqueous solvent is a mixture of DMC, PC and EC solvents.
Lithium cell having mixed lithium--metal--chalcogenide cathode
The invention provides a new positive electrode active material having increased capacity and a method for operating an electrochemical lithium cell or battery which has the new positive electrode active material composition.
The positive electrode comprises first and second lithium-containing active materials which are different from one another.
The invention provides the ability to overcome first cycle inefficiency typically observed when using a single lithium-containing metal chalcogenide by adding a small amount of a second lithium-containing metal chalcogenide, preferably lithium copper oxide.
A lithium ion battery which comprises a positive electrode and a negative electrode; said negative electrode comprising an active material consisting of an intercalation material in a pre-charge state; said positive electrode comprising an active material consisting of first and second lithium-containing intercalation compounds which are different from one another, the fist being a lithium copper oxide compound and the second being a lithium metal chalcogenide compound other than lithium copper oxide.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said lithium copper oxide has two lithium ions per formula unit of copper oxide.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said lithium copper oxide is a compound represented by the nominal general formula Li.sub.2 CuO.sub.2.
The battery according to claim 3 wherein said lithium copper oxide is capable of extraction and insertion of a quantity of x of lithium ions and is represented by the nominal general formula Li.sub.2-x CuO.sub.2, and where during cycling of the battery (charge and discharge) the value of x varies as 0.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2.
The battery according to claim 4 wherein the value of x varies as 0.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.1.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said lithium copper oxide active material is present in an amount which is less than half the combined weight of said first and second active materials.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said second compound material is a lithium manganese oxide compound.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said second compound is a spinel represented by the nominal general formula LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said negative electrode active material is selected from the group consisting of transition metal oxide, metal chalcogenide, carbon, graphite, and mixtures thereof.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said first compound is characterized by an electrochemical potential versus lithium which is less than the electrochemical potential of said second compound, and further characterized by electrochemical deintercalation of lithium ions at a lower voltage versus lithium than the voltage at which said second compound deintercalates lithium ions during charging cycle of said battery; said negative electrode active material characterized by intercalating said deintercalated lithium ions during said charging cycle and by subsequent deintercalation of lithium ions on discharge cycle; and said second compound characterized by reintercalation of said discharge cycle lithium ions from said negative electrode active material, at a voltage higher than said characteristic lower voltage of said first compound.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said negative electrode active material is selected from the group consisting of carbon, graphite, and mixtures thereof.
Lithium ion batteries containing pre-lithiated electrodes
The invention provides an electrochemical cell which is at least partially charged and which comprises a first electrode having an active material in particle form consisting essentially of at least partially lithiated graphite.
The lithiated graphite particles are prepared by chemically or electrochemically inserting lithium ions into the particles prior to assembly of the cell.
A second electrode which is a counter electrode to the first electrode has an active material consisting essentially of vanadium oxide.
An electrochemical cell which is at least partially charged and which comprises a first electrode having an active material in particle form consisting essentially of at least partially lithiated graphite corresponding to Li.sub.x C.sub.6 where x is greater than 0 and up to about 1, said lithiated graphite particles prepared by chemically or electrochemically inserting lithium ions into said particles prior to assembly of said cell; and a second electrode which is a counter electrode to the first electrode, said second electrode having an active material consisting essentially of Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.13, where y is greater than or equal to 0 and up to about 8.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 1 which is fully precharged in an initial, as prepared, as assembled condition, with x equal to about 1, and with y equal to 0, corresponding to V.sub.6 O.sub.13 and to LiC.sub.6.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 1 having at least partially lithiated Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.3 corresponding to y equals at least 1 which is relatively more air stable than said lithiated graphite.
The precharged electrical cell according to claim 1 wherein said graphite particles have an interlayer distance spacing of 002 planes (d.sub.002) as determined by x-ray diffraction of 0.330 to 0.340 nanometers (nm), a crystallite size in the direction of c-axis (L.sub.c) being greater than about 90 nanometers (nm) and less than about 1000 nanometers, and at least 90 percent by weight of said graphite particles having a size less than about 24 microns (Am).
The battery according to claim 4 wherein said graphite particles have a BET surface area greater than about 4 square meters per gram (m.sup.2 /g) and up to about 16 meters square per gram (m.sup.2 /g).
The battery according to claim 4 wherein the crystallite size (L.sub.c is greater than about 100 nanometers (nm).
The battery according to claim 4 wherein the crystallite size (L.sub.c) is less than about 200 nanometers (nm).
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said electrolyte comprises a solute and a solvent mixture; said solute comprising a salt of a metal; said solvent mixture comprising (i) ethylene carbonate (EC), and (ii) a solvent selected from the group consisting of propylene carbonate (PC), butylene carbonate (BC), and mixtures thereof with the ethylene carbonate being present in an amount by weight which is at least as great as the amount of any other solvent.
The battery according to claim 1 wherein said electrolyte comprises a solute and a solvent mixture; said solute comprising a salt of a metal; said solvent mixture consisting essentially of propylene carbonate (PC), ethylene carbonate (EC), and optionally one or more other organic solvents having a boiling point less than the boiling of point of said EC; with the ethylene carbonate being present in an amount by weight which is at least as great as the amount of propylene carbonate and at least as great as the amount of any said other solvent, respectively.
An electrochemical cell comprising a first electrode having an active material consisting essentially of lithiated vanadium oxide corresponding to Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.13, where y is greater than 0 and up to about 8; and a second electrode which is a counter-electrode to the first electrode, said second electrode having an active material consisting essentially of graphite particles characterized by an interlayer distance spacing of 002 planes (d.sub.002) as determined by x-ray diffraction of 0.330 to 0.340 nanometers (nm), a crystallite size in the direction of c-axis (L.sub.6) being greater than about 90 nanometers (nm) and less than about 1000 nanometers, and at least 90 percent by weight of said graphite particles having a size less than about 24 microns (.mu.m).
The battery according to claim 10 wherein said graphite particles have a BET surface area greater than about 4 square meters per gram (m.sup.2 /g) and up to about 16 meters square per gram (m.sup.2 /g).
The battery according to claim 10 wherein the crystallite size (L.sub.c) is greater than about 100 nanometers (nm).
The battery according to claim 10 wherein the crystallite size (L.sub.c) is less than about 200 nanometers (nm).
The battery according to claim 10 wherein said electrolyte comprises a solute and a solvent mixture; said solute comprising a salt of a metal; said solvent mixture comprising (i) ethylene carbonate (EC), and (ii) a solvent selected from the group consisting of propylene carbonate (PC), butylene carbonate (BC), and mixtures thereof with the ethylene carbonate being present in an amount by weight which is at least as great as the amount of any other solvent.
The battery according to claim 10 wherein said electrolyte comprises a solute and a solvent mixture; said solute comprising a salt of a metal; said solvent mixture consisting essentially of propylene carbonate (PC), ethylene carbonate (EC), and optionally one or more other organic solvents having a boiling point less than the boiling of point of said EC; with the ethylene carbonate being present in an amount by weight which is at least as great as the amount of propylene carbonate and at least as great as the amount of any said other solvent, respectively.
Electrodes for lithium ion batteries using polysiloxanes
A lithium ion battery electrode formed by the pyrolysis of a siloxane polymer of the structure followed by introducing lithium ions.
In this structure, each R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and a hydrocarbon, w is in the range of 0 to about 0.8, x is in the range of 0 to about 0.9, y is in the range of 0 to about 0.9, z is in the range of 0 to 1 and w+x+y+z=1.
A method of forming an electrode material for a lithium ion battery comprising: (A) pyrolyzing a composition comprising a siloxane polymer of the structure wherein each R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and hydrocarbons of 1-20 carbon atoms, w is in the range of 0 to about 0.8, x is in the range of 0 to about 0.9, y is in the range of 0 to about 0.9, z is in the range of 0 to 0.9 and w+x+y+z=1 to form a ceramic material; and (B) introducing lithium ions into the ceramic material to form an electrode material.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the siloxane polymer is cured prior to pyrolysis.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the siloxane polymer is pyrolyzed at a temperature in the range of 700.degree.
to 1400.degree.
C. at a heating rate less than about 10.degree.
C./minute.
The method of claim 1 wherein the ceramic material of step (A) is formed into a powder, the powder blended with a binder and a diluent to form a mixture and the mixture formed into an electrode before the lithium ions are introduced.
The method of claim 1 wherein the siloxane polymer produces a char containing at least 0.5 weight percent excess carbon.
The method of claim 1 wherein the siloxane polymer has a char yield greater than about 50 weight percent.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the siloxane polymer also contains a curing agent.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the siloxane polymer also contains a carbonaceous material.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the siloxane polymer also contains a filler.
The method of claim 1 wherein the siloxane polymer is a copolymer with a polymer selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, silazanes, silanes, and organic polymers.
The method of claim 1 wherein the siloxane polymer is blended with a polymer selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, silazanes, silanes, and organic polymers.
In a method of making a rechargeable lithium ion battery, the improvement comprising making an anode by a process comprising: (A) pyrolyzing a composition comprising a siloxane polymer of the structure wherein each R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5 and R.sup.6 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and a hydrocarbon, w is in the range of 0 to about 0.8, x is in the range of 0 to about 0.9, y is in the range of 0 to about 0.9, z is in the range of 0 to 0.9 and w+x+y+z=1 to form a ceramic material; and (B) introducing lithium ions into the ceramic material to form an anode.
Negative electrode material for use in lithium secondary batteries and  lithium secondary batteries incorporating this material
A negative electrode material for use in lithium secondary batteries contains a negative electrode active material container made from an amorphous transition metal nitride containing lithium represented by the chemical formula Li.sub.1+x M.sub.y N, where M represents one or more elements selected from; a transition metal, group IIIA, group IVA, and group VA, and contains at least a transition metal, x is within the range from -0.2 to 2.0, and y is within the range from 0.1 to 0.6.
A negative electrode material for use in lithium secondary batteries, said negative electrode material consisting essentially of an amorphous transition metal nitride containing lithium represented by the chemical formula Li.sub.1+X M.sub.Y N, where M represents one or more elements selected from; a transition metal, group IIIA, group IVA, and group VA, and contains at least one of Co, Ni and Cu, x is within the range from -0.2 to 2.0, and y is greater than 0.1 and less than 0.5.
A negative electrode material for use in lithium secondary batteries according to claim 1, wherein said transition metal nitride containing lithium, in X-ray powder diffraction measurements with .theta.
as an angle of diffraction, has no diffraction peak within a range from 30.degree.
to 70.degree.
by 2.theta.. 3.
A negative electrode material for use in lithium secondary batteries according to claim 1, wherein x+y is less than 2.
A negative electrode material for use in lithium secondary batteries according to claim 1, wherein x is within a range from -0.2 to 0.5.
A lithium secondary battery comprising: a negative electrode into which lithium is inserted with charging and from which lithium is extracted with discharging; a positive electrode containing a positive electrode active material with which a reversible electrochemical reaction of lithium ions is possible; and a lithium ion conducting electrolyte; wherein the negative electrode material consists essentially of an amorphous transition metal nitride containing lithium represented by the chemical formula Li.sub.1+x M.sub.y N, where M represents one or more elements selected from; a transition metal, group IIIA, group IVA, and group VA, and contains at least one of Co, Ni and Cu, x is within the range from -0.2 to 2.0, and y is greater than 0.1 and less than 0.5.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 5, wherein said transition metal nitride containing lithium, in X-ray powder diffraction measurements with .theta.
as an angle of diffraction, has no diffraction peak within a range from 30.degree.
to 70.degree.
by 2.theta.. 7.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 5, wherein x+y is less than 2.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 5, wherein x is within a range from -0.2 to 0.5.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 5, wherein said positive electrode active material is a transition metal oxide containing lithium represented by the chemical formula Li.sub.z M'O.sub.2, where M' represents one element or two or more elements belonging to the transition metals, and z is within the range from 0.5 to 1.0.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 9, wherein said transition metal oxide containing lithium represented by the chemical formula Li.sub.z M'O.sub.2, is one of LiNiO.sub.2, LiCoO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.0.5 Co.sub.0.5 O.sub.2, and Li.sub.0.5 MnO.sub.2.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 9, wherein said positive electrode active material is a sulfate compound represented by the chemical formula Li.sub.w Fe.sub.2 (SO.sub.4).sub.3 (0<w.ltoreq.2.0).
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 9, wherein said electrolyte is a nonaqueous electrolyte or an electrolyte impregnated polymer matrix.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 12, wherein a solvent of said nonaqueous electrolyte or electrolyte impregnated polymer matrix contains ethylene carbonate or propylene carbonate.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 13, wherein said solvent of said nonaqueous electrolyte or electrolyte impregnated polymer matrix is a mixture solvent containing ethylene carbonate or propylene carbonate, and an ester or ether of chain structure.
Current collector for lithium ion electrochemical cell
Electrochemical cells having a current collector that includes a redox polymer film affords overdischarge protection.
The redox polymers can reversibly insert anions and/or cations during oxidation and/or reduction thereby rendering the polymers conductive relatively to their neutral state.
A method of operating an electrochemical cell that includes an anode comprising an intercalation carbon material, a cathode comprising a lithiated cathode active material, an electrolyte comprising an electrolyte solvent and salt that forms a lithium cation and an anionic counter ion, wherein the electrolyte is interposed between the anode and cathode, and a cathode current collector which is positioned adjacent to the cathode on a side opposite to the electrolyte, wherein the cathode current collector comprises a redox polymer film and optionally a metal current collector substrate, said method comprising the steps of: (a) charging or recharging the electrochemical cell until the cell is fully charged whereby anionic counter ions are inserted in the redox polymer which is initially in a neutral state thereby oxidizing the redox polymer to render the redox polymer electronically conductive; (b) discharging the electrochemical cell wherein the oxidized redox polymer remains electronically conductive; and (c) overdischarging the electrochemical cell whereby essentially all of the anionic counter ions in the oxidized redox polymer are removed therefrom thereby converting the redox polymer from the oxidized state into a neutral state having an electronic conductivity of less than about 10.sup.-5 S/cm, said method characterized in that during the overdischarging step there is substantially no dissolution of the current collector substrate into the electrolyte solvent and there is substantially no decomposition of the electrolyte solvent to form gases.
The method of claim 1 wherein during the overdischarge step the electrochemical cell is subject to a potential of greater than 3 volts.
The method of claim 1 wherein the intercalation carbon material is graphite.
The method of claim 1 wherein the redox polymer film made of material that is selected from the group consisting of polyaniline, polythiophene, alkyl substituted polythiophene, polypyrrole, alkyl substituted polypyrrole, polyfuran, alkyl substituted polyfuran, polyphenylene vinylene, and polythiophene vinylene, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 1 wherein the cathode current collector consists essentially of a layer of the redox polymer film.
The method of claim 1 wherein the cathode current collector includes a metal current collector substrate comprising a foil or grid that is coated on at least one side with a film of said redox polymer.
The method of claim 1 wherein the anionic counter ion comprises PF.sub.6.sup.-.
The method of claim 1 wherein the salt comprises LiPF.sub.6.
The method of claim 1 wherein the redox polymer film when in the oxidized state has an electronic conductivity of greater than about 10 S/cm.
The method of claim 1 wherein the redox polymer film when in the oxidized state has an electronic conductivity of greater than about 100 S/cm.
The method of claim 1 wherein the redox polymer film when in the neutral state has an electronic conductivity of less than about 10.sup.-7 S/cm.
The method of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte comprises a polymeric matrix.
The method of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte solvent comprises a carbonate selected from the group consisting of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, propylene carbonate, ethylene carbonate, and methyl ethyl carbonate.
The method of claim 1 further characterized in that lithium cations are inserted into the redox polymer film.
The method of claim 1 wherein in the charging or recharging step, the insertion of the anionic counter ions into the redox polymer is accompanied by extraction of lithium cations from the lithiated cathode active material.
The method of claim 15 wherein the insertion of the anionic counter ions is characterized by a first potential and the extraction of lithium cations is characterized by a second potential and the magnitude of the first potential is about equal to the magnitude of the second potential.
Rechargeable lithium battery
The present invention provides an electrochemical cell or battery, which has a nonmetal negative electrode (anode).
That is, no solid metal active material is used in the cell.
Rather than the conventional solid lithium metal anode, the active material of the new anode comprises a compound of vanadium oxide.
Accordingly, the lithium cell of the invention comprises a positive electrode and a negative electrode, where the negative electrode comprises a compound of vanadium oxide which in a fully discharged state is represented by the nominal general formula V.sub.6 O.sub.13 or Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.13, y equal to 0; and, in a fully or partially lithiated, fully or partially charged state, is represented by the nominal general formula Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.13, where y is greater than 0 and less than or equal to 8.
The unique negative electrode of the invention demonstrates exceptional performance without the disadvantages of metallic lithium negative electrodes.
A lithium battery which comprises a positive electrode and a negative electrode, said negative electrode having an active material comprising an oxide of vanadium and said positive electrode having an active material which is a lithium chalcogenide compound different from Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.13+x, with 0.ltoreq.y<8 and 0<x<2; said negative electrode comprising said oxide of vanadium, represented by the formula Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.13+z, where y is greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 8, where z is greater than 0 and less than 2; and having said oxide which, when fully or partially lithiated with lithium ions and fully or partially charged, is represented by said formula Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.13+z where y is greater than 4; and having said oxide which, in an unlithiated, uncharged state, or fully discharged state, is represented by said formula Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.13+z with y equal to 0, corresponding to V.sub.6 O.sub.13+z ; said oxide further characterized by an inherent monoclinic crystal structure, and is in the monoclinic crystal structure condition after repeated charging and discharging.
The battery according to claim 1 further comprising an electrolyte interposed between said positive electrode and said negative electrode; and where at least one of said electrolyte and active material of said positive electrode comprises a lithium compound characterized by an ability to react electrochemically with said oxide and releases lithium ions for intercalation into said oxide during charging of said battery.
A lithium ion battery which comprises: a positive electrode and a negative electrode, said negative electrode having an active material comprising an oxide of vanadium and said positive electrode having an active material which is a lithium chalcogenide compound different from Li.sub.y V.sub.6 O.sub.13+x, with 0.ltoreq.y<8 and 0<x<2; said negative electrode comprising said oxide of vanadium which is characterized by an uncharged or fully discharged state which is lithium-free and represented by the formula V.sub.6 O.sub.13+z, and by a charged state represented by the formula Li.sub.x V.sub.6 O.sub.13+z, 4<x.ltoreq.8, where z is greater than 0 and less than 2; said oxide further characterized by an inherent monoclinic crystal structure and is in monoclinic crystal structure after repeated charging and discharging.
A rechargeable lithium battery having non-metallic electrode active material, which has a nominal operating potential in the range of about 1 to about 2 volts, and which maintains over 60 percent of its discharge capacity after 80 cycles at a current density of about 0.5 m A/cm.sup.2 ; said battery comprising a positive electrode and a negative electrode, said negative electrode comprising a monoclinic structured active material consisting of an oxide of vanadium, represented by the formula V.sub.6 O.sub.13+z, where z is greater than 0 and less than 2, and said positive electrode having an active material represented by the formula Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 having 0<x<1; said positive electrode active material characterized by deintercalation of lithium ions therefrom for intercalation into the negative electrode active material during charging of said battery, whereupon x in Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 declines from said value of about 1 during said charging; and wherein said anode active material contains said oxide of vanadium as the only transition metal oxide therein, and is in the monoclinic crystal structure condition after repeated charging and discharging of said battery.
Preparation of copper-indium-gallium-diselenide precursor films by  electrodeposition for fabricating high efficiency solar cells
A photovoltaic cell exhibiting an overall conversion efficiency of 13.6% is prepared from a copper-indium-gallium-diselenide precursor thin film.
The film is fabricated by first simultaneously electrodepositing copper, indium, gallium, and selenium onto a glass/molybdenum substrate (12/14).
The electrodeposition voltage is a high frequency AC voltage superimposed upon a DC voltage to improve the morphology and growth rate of the film.
The electrodeposition is followed by physical vapor deposition to adjust the final stoichiometry of the thin film to approximately Cu(In.sub.1-n Ga.sub.x)Se.sub.2, with the ratio of Ga/(In+Ga) being approximately 0.39.
A process for preparing a copper-indium-gallium-diselenide film, the process comprising the steps of: providing a substrate; providing an electrodeposition bath containing ions of copper, indium, and selenium, the bath further containing ions of gallium in a concentration of at least 0.05 molar; inserting said substrate into said electrodeposition bath; forming a semiconductor layer by simultaneously electrodepositing a film comprising copper, indium, selenium and gallium from said electrodeposition bath onto said substrate, the electrodeposition proceeding at an applied electrodeposition voltage of at least 0.5 volt; and depositing by physical vapor deposition additional material selected from the group consisting of copper, indium, gallium, and selenium, onto said semiconductor layer to achieve a final stoichiometry for said semiconductor layer and said additional material, combined, of approximately Cu.sub.1 (In.sub.1-x Ga.sub.x)Se.sub.2 where x is within the range of 0 to 1, inclusive.
The process of claim 1 wherein x is greater than approximately 0.34.
The process of claim 1 wherein said gallium ions are obtained from gallium nitrate.
The process of claim 3 wherein said electrodeposition bath further comprises at least 0.3 molar lithium chloride.
The process of claim 1 wherein: said indium ions are obtained from indium chloride.
The process of claim 1 wherein: said electrodeposition voltage comprises a DC voltage of at least 1.0 volt and an AC voltage of at least 0.5 V at a frequency of at least 1.0 KHz superimposed thereon.
The process of claim 6 wherein: said AC voltage consists of a pulsed voltage.
The process of claim 7 wherein said AC voltage frequency is at least 10 KHz.
The process of claim 8 wherein said DC voltage is at least 2 volts, and said AC voltage is at least 2 volts.
A process for preparing a photovoltaic device gallium-containing precursor film, the process comprising the steps of: providing a substrate; providing an electrodeposition bath containing ionic copper, indium, and selenium, and gallium in the approximate relative ratios of 1, 5, 1.5, and 5, respectively; inserting said substrate into said electrodeposition bath; and forming a thin film layer by simultaneously electrodepositing copper, indium, selenium and gallium from said electrodeposition bath onto said substrate.
The process of claim 10 further comprising the step of: depositing by physical vapor deposition additional material selected from the group consisting of copper, indium, gallium, and selenium, onto said thin film layer to achieve a final stoichiometry for said thin film layer and said additional material, combined, of approximately Cu.sub.1 (In.sub.1-x Ga.sub.x)Se.sub.2 where x is within the range of 0 to 1, inclusive.
The process of claim 10 wherein: said electrodeposition proceeds at an electrodeposition potential comprising a DC component of at least 0.5 volt.
The process of claim 12 wherein: said electrodeposition potential further comprises an AC component of at least 1.0 volt at a frequency of at least 1 KHz.
The process of claim 12 wherein said electrodeposition potential further includes an AC component of at least 0.5 volt.
A process for preparing a photovoltaic device gallium-containing precursor film, the process comprising the steps of: providing a substrate; providing an electrodeposition bath comprising approximately 0.01-0.02M copper ions, 0.05-0.15M indium ions, 0.05-0.15M gallium ions, and 0.01-0.03M selenium ions inserting said substrate into said electrodeposition bath; forming a metal-containing film by simultaneously electrodepositing at least three elements from said electrodeposition bath onto said substrate; and depositing by physical vapor deposition additional material selected from the group consisting of copper, indium, gallium, and selenium, onto said metal-containing film to achieve a final stoichiometry for said metal-containing film and said additional material, combined, of approximately Cu.sub.1 (In.sub.1-x Ga.sub.x)Se2 wherein x is within the range of approximately 0.34 to 0.50.
The process of claim 15 wherein said electrodeposition bath further comprises at least 0.3M lithium chloride.
Lithium manganese oxide insertion compounds and use in rechargeable  batteries
A novel form of the insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 and a tetragonal crystal structure has been synthesized wherein x is a number in the range from about 1.7 to about 2.1.
The insertion compound has a voltage relative to Li/Li.sup.+ in the range from about 3.2 to about 3.8 V and is thus air stable.
The insertion compound is useful as an electrode material for lithium ion batteries.
In particular, the insertion compound can be used as a cathode additive to result in a cathode limited construction.
In certain applications, this can result in improved tolerance to overdischarge.
An insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 and a tetragonal crystal structure wherein x is a number in the range from about 1.7 to about 2.1 said insertion compound having a voltage relative to Li/Li.sup.+ in the range from about 3.2 to about 3.8 V. 2.
An insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein x is about 2.1 and the voltage is about 3.2 V. 3.
An insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein x is about 1.7 and the voltage is about 3.8 V. 4.
An insertion compound as claimed in claim 3 wherein the insertion compound undergoes a phase transition at about 3.8 volts versus Li/Li.sup.+ when lithium is extracted electrochemically to form a spinel compound having a cubic crystal structure.
A method of preparing an insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.2.1 Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 having a voltage relative to Li/Li.sup.+ of about 3.2 V, comprising the following steps: (a) mixing a LiMnO.sub.2 compound with an orthorhombic crystal structure and a lithium source; and (b) heating the LiMnO.sub.2 compound and lithium source mixture at a soaking temperature above 150.degree.
C. in an atmosphere substantially free of oxygen.
A method of preparing an insertion compound as claimed in claim 5 wherein the lithium source is Li.sub.2 CO.sub.3.
A method of preparing an insertion compound as claimed in claim 5 wherein the ratio of the lithium source to the LiMnO.sub.2 compound in the mixture is chosen such that the total moles of lithium in the mixture is in the range from about 1.25 to about 1.45 times the moles of Mn.
A method of preparing an insertion compound as claimed in claim 5 wherein the soaking temperature is about 1000.degree.
C. 9.
A method of preparing an insertion compound as claimed in claim 8 wherein the soaking temperature is attained by ramping the temperature of the mixture at about 80.degree.
C./minute.
A method of preparing an insertion compound as claimed in claim 8 wherein the soaking temperature is maintained for about 1 to 2 hours.
A method of preparing an insertion compound as claimed in claim 5 wherein the atmosphere is provided by flowing inert gas over the mixture during the heating.
A method of preparing an insertion compound having the formula Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4, x being a number in the range from about 1.7 to about 2.1 and the insertion compound having a voltage relative to Li/Li.sup.+ from about 3.2 to about 3.8 V, comprising the following steps: (a) mixing a LiMnO.sub.2 compound with an orthorhombic crystal structure and a lithium salt; (b) heating the LiMnO.sub.2 and lithium salt mixture at a soaking temperature above 150.degree.
C. in at atmosphere substantially free of oxygen; and (c) electrochemically extracting lithium from the insertion compound.
An insertion compound prepared by the method as claimed in claim 5.
An insertion compound prepared by the method as claimed in claim 12.
A rechargeable battery comprising an anode, an electrolyte, and a cathode wherein a portion of the cathode comprises the insertion compound as claimed in claim 13, or 14.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 15 wherein the cathode additionally comprises a lithium transition metal oxide insertion compound.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 16 wherein the lithium transition metal oxide compound is a lithium manganese oxide spinel insertion compound.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 16 wherein the battery is cathode limited on discharge.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 18 wherein the anode comprises a lithium insertion compound and the electrolyte comprises a lithium salt dissolved in non-aqueous solvents.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 19 wherein the anode additionally comprises a copper current collector.
Method of forming electrodes for lithium ion batteries using  polycarbosilanes
A lithium ion battery electrode formed by the pyrolysis of a polycarbosilane followed by introducing lithium ions.
These electrodes can be used to form batteries with large capacities, low irreversible capacity, high density and good safety behavior.
A method of forming an electrode material for a lithium ion battery comprising: (A) pyrolyzing a composition comprising a polycarbosilane containing repeating --SiHCH.sub.3 --CH.sub.2 -- units to form a ceramic material; and (B) introducing lithium ions into the ceramic material to form an electrode material.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polycarbosilane is cured prior to pyrolysis.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polycarbosilane is pyrolyzed at a temperature in the range of 700 to 1400.degree.
C. at a rate of heating less than about 10.degree.
C./minute.
The method of claim 1 wherein the ceramic material is formed into a powder, the powder blended with a binder and a diluent to form a mixture and the mixture formed into the desired shape of the electrode before the lithium ions are introduced.
The method of claim 1 wherein pyrolysis of the polycarbosilane produces a ceramic material containing at least 0.5 weight percent excess carbon.
The method of claim 1 wherein the polycarbosilane has a char yield greater than about 50 weight percent.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polycarbosilane also contains a curing agent.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polycarbosilane also contains a carbonaceous material.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polycarbosilane also contains a filler.
The method of claim 1 wherein the polycarbosilane is a copolymer with a polymer selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, silazanes, silanes, siloxanes and organic polymers.
The method of claim 1 wherein the polycarbosilane is blended with a polymer selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, siloxanes, silazanes, silanes, and organic polymers.
The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the polycarbosilane is polycarbosilane hydroxide.
The method as claimed in claim 8 wherein the carbonaceous material is pitch.
In a method of making a rechargeable lithium ion battery, the improvement comprising making an anode by a process comprising: (A) pyrolyzing a composition comprising a polycarbosilane polymer containing repeating --SiHCH.sub.3 --CH.sub.2 -- units to form a ceramic material; and (B) introducing lithium ions into the ceramic material to form an anode.
Fluorine-containing solvents for lithium batteries having increased  safety
The safety of secondary lithium cells is remarkedly enhanced when partially fluorinated ethers of the formulae and/or are being used, wherein R is a straight-chain alkyl group containing 1 to 10 carbon atoms or a branched alkyl group containing 3 to 10 carbon atoms, X is fluorine, chlorine or a perfluoroalkyl group containing 1 to 6 carbon atoms, which may also contain ethereal oxygen, m is an integer from 2 to 6 and n is an integer from 1 to 8.
Preferred are compounds of the formula (I), wherein R is a methyl group, X is fluorine, m is 2 and n is an integer from 1 to 3 and also compounds of the formula (II), wherein m is 2 and n is an integer from 1 to 3.
An electrolyte which comprises at least one partially fluorinated ether chosen from the group consisting of formula (I) ##STR2## in which R is a straight-chain alkyl group containing 1 to 10 carbon atoms or a branched alkyl group containing 3 to 10 carbon atoms, X is fluorine, chlorine or a perfluoroalkyl group containing 1 to 6 carbon atoms, which optionally contains ethereal oxygen, m is an integer from 2 to 6 and n is an integer from I to 8, formula (II) in which X, m and n have the abovementioned meanings and mixtures of formula I and formula II.
An electrolyte as claimed in claim 1, wherein X is fluorine or trifluoromethyl.
An electrolyte as claimed in claim 1, wherein, in formula (I), R is a methyl group, X is fluorine, m is 2 and n is 1 to 3 and, in formula (II), X is fluorine, m is 2 and n is 1 to 3.
An electrolyte as claimed in claim 1, wherein the content of partially fluorinated ethers is 5 to 70% by volume of the total electrolyte system.
The electrolyte as claimed in claim 4, wherein the content of partially fluorinated ethers is 20 to 50% by volume of the total electrolyte system.
An electrolyte as claimed in claim 1, which further comprises ethylene carbonate and/or propylene carbonate.
An electrolyte as claimed in claim 1, wherein, to stabilize ethers of the formulae (I) and (II), a tertiary aliphatic amine is used which has a boiling point of at least 100.degree.
C. at normal pressure and of which 0.1 to 1.0% by weight in relation to the fluorine-containing ether is used.
A secondary lithium battery having increased safety which comprises the electrolyte as claimed in claim 1.
The electrolyte as claimed in claim 1, which further comprises a fluorinated ether of the formula ##STR3## wherein n is 1 or 2.
An electrolyte which comprises at least one fluorinated ether of the form ##STR4## wherein n is 1 or 2.
Heat-treated silver vanadium oxide for use in batteries for implantable  medical devices
The invention provides heat-treated silver vanadium oxide for use in the cathodes of electrochemical cells, particularly in implantable medical devices.
The heat-treated silver vanadium oxide is capable of being pressed into a pellet having a pressed pellet density of about 3.10 g/cm.sup.3 to about 3.45 g/cm.sup.3 when about 2 grams of the heat-treated silver vanadium oxide are uniaxially pressed into a pellet using a 1.6 cm diameter cylindrical die with a 7500 pound force applied for 5 seconds.
An implantable medical device powered by an electrochemical cell comprising: an electrochemical cell body positioned in the implantable medical device; a lithium anode contained in the electrochemical cell body; a cathode contained in the electrochemical cell body, wherein the cathode comprises a binder and heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide capable of being pressed into a pellet having a pressed pellet density of about 3.10 g/cm.sup.3 to about 3.45 g/cm.sup.3 when about 2 grams of the heat-treated silver vanadium oxide are uniaxially pressed into a pellet using a 1.6 cm diameter cylindrical die with a 7500 pound force applied for 5 seconds; and an electrolyte contained in the electrochemical cell body for contacting the anode and cathode.
The implantable medical device according to claim 1, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide is prepared from silver vanadium oxide synthesized using a decomposition reaction.
The implantable medical device according to claim 1, wherein the silver vanadium oxide is heat-treated after synthesis for at least about 0.5 hour at a temperature of about 390.degree.
C. to about 580.degree.
C. 4.
The implantable medical device according to claim 3, wherein the silver vanadium oxide is heat-treated after synthesis in the presence of a flowing gas.
The implantable medical device according to claim 4, wherein the gas flow comprises an oxidizing gas having a partial pressure of oxygen greater than that in air.
The implantable medical device according to claim 1, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide has an associated x-ray diffraction scan using Cu K.alpha.
radiation having a peak occurring at a value of about 23.6.degree.(2.theta.).
indexed to a {002} lattice spacing, and a peak occurring at a value of about 24.0.degree.(2.theta.
), indexed to a {201} lattice spacing, when indexed on a C-centered unit cell.
The implantable medical device according to claim 1, wherein the cathode further comprises heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide having the formula Ag.sub.x V.sub.4 O.sub.y, wherein x is about 1.6 to about 2.2 and y is about 10.5 to about 11.5.
The implantable medical device according to claim 7, wherein x is about 2 and y is about 11.
The implantable medical device according to claim 1, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide is prepared by heat treating non-compressed silver vanadium oxide after synthesis.
The implantable medical device according to claim 1, wherein the binder is selected from the group of polytetrafluoroethylene, methyl cellulose, ethylene propylene diene terpolymer, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyolefins, fluorinated ethylene propylene, polyvinylidene fluoride, and mixtures thereof.
The implantable medical device according to claim 1, wherein the cathode further comprises a conductivity enhancing additive or agent.
The implantable medical device according to claim 1, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide displays an x-ray diffraction scan using Cu K.alpha.
radiation substantially as represented by FIG.
An electrochemical cell, comprising: an anode; and a cathode, wherein the cathode comprises a binder and heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide capable of being pressed into a pellet having a pressed pellet density of about 3.10 g/cm.sup.3 to about 3.45 g/cm.sup.3 when about 2 grams of the heat-treated silver vanadium oxide are uniaxially pressed into a pellet using a 1.6 cm diameter cylindrical die with a 7500 pound force applied for 5 seconds.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the anode comprises lithium.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide is prepared from silver vanadium oxide synthesized using a decomposition reaction.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the silver vanadium oxide is heat-treated after synthesis for at least about 0.5 hour at a temperature of about 390.degree.
C. to about 580.degree.
C. 17.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 16, wherein the silver vanadium oxide is heat-treated after synthesis in the presence of a flowing gas.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 17, wherein the gas flow comprises an oxidizing gas having a partial pressure of oxygen greater than that in air.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide has an associated x-ray diffraction scan using Cu K.alpha.
radiation having a peak occurring at a value of about 23.6.degree.(2.theta.
), indexed to a {002} lattice spacing, and a peak occurring at a value of about 24.0.degree.(2.theta.
), indexed to a {201} lattice spacing, when indexed on a C-centered unit cell.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the cathode further comprises heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide having the formula Ag.sub.x V.sub.4 O.sub.y, wherein x is about 1.6 to about 2.2 and y is about 10.5 to about 11.5.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 20, wherein x is about 2 and y is about 11.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide is prepared by heat treating non-compressed silver vanadium oxide after synthesis.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the binder is selected from the group of polytetrafluoroethylene, methyl cellulose, ethyene propylene diene terpolymer, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyolefins, fluorinated ethylene propylene, polyvinylidene fluoride, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the cathode further comprises a conductivity enhancing additive or agent.
The electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide displays an x-ray diffraction scan using Cu K.alpha.
radiation substantially as represented by FIG.
A cathode comprising a binder and heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide capable of being pressed into a pellet having a pressed pellet density of about 3.10 g/cm.sup.3 to about 3.45 g/cm.sup.3 when about 2 grams of the heat-treated silver vanadium oxide are uniaxially pressed into a pellet using a 1.6 cm diameter cylindrical die with a 7500 pound force applied for 5 seconds.
The cathode according to claim 26, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide is prepared from silver vanadium oxide synthesized using a decomposition reaction.
The cathode according to claim 26, wherein the silver vanadium oxide is heat-treated after synthesis for at least about 0.5 hour at a temperature of about 390.degree.
C. to about 580.degree.
C. 29.
The cathode according to claim 28, wherein the silver vanadium oxide is heat-treated after synthesis in the presence of a flowing gas.
The cathode according to claim 29, wherein the gas flow comprises an oxidizing gas having a partial pressure of oxygen greater than that in air.
The cathode according to claim 26, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide has an associated x-ray diffraction scan using Cu K.alpha.
radiation having a peak occurring at a value of about 23.6.degree.(2.theta.
), indexed to a {002} lattice spacing, and a peak occurring at a value of about 24.0.degree.(2.theta.
), indexed to a {201} lattice spacing, when indexed on a C-centered unit cell.
The cathode according to claim 26, wherein the cathode further comprises heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide having the formula Ag.sub.x V.sub.4 O.sub.y, wherein x is about 1.6 to about 2.2 and y is about 10.5 to about 11.5.
The cathode according to claim 32, wherein x is about 2 and y is about 11.
The cathode according to claim 26, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide is prepared by heat treating non-compressed silver vanadium oxide after synthesis.
The cathode according to claim 26, wherein the binder is selected from the group of polytetrafluoroethylene, methyl cellulose, ethyene propylene diene terpolymer, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyolefins, fluorinated ethylene propylene, polyvinylidene fluoride, and mixtures thereof.
The cathode according to claim 26, wherein the cathode further comprises a conductivity enhancing additive or agent.
The cathode according to claim 26, wherein the heat-treated after synthesis silver vanadium oxide displays an x-ray diffraction scan using Cu K.alpha.
radiation substantially as represented by FIG.
Methods and reagents for enhancing the cycling efficiency of lithium  polymer batteries
Batteries including a lithium electrode and a sulfur counter electrode that demonstrate improved cycling efficiencies are described.
In one embodiment, an electrochemical cell having a lithium electrode and a sulfur electrode including at least one of elemental sulfur, lithium sulfide, and a lithium polysulfide is provided.
The lithium electrode includes a surface coating that is effective to increase the cycling efficiency of said electrochemical cell.
In a more particular embodiment, the lithium electrode is in an electrolyte solution, and, more particularly, an electrolyte solution including either elemental sulfur, a sulfide, or a polysulfide.
In another embodiment, the coating is formed after the lithium electrode is contacted with the electrolyte.
In a more particular embodiment, the coating is formed by a reaction between the lithium metal of the lithium electrode and a chemical species present in the electrolyte.
An electrochemical cell, comprising a lithium electrode and a sulfur electrode including at least one of elemental sulfur, lithium sulfide, and a lithium polysulfide, said lithium electrode having a lithium metal electrode surface including a surface coating that is effective to increase the cycling efficiency of said electrochemical cell.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said lithium electrode is in an electrolyte solution.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2, wherein said electrolyte solution contains at least one of elemental sulfur, a sulfide, and a polysulfide.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3, wherein said surface coating of said lithium electrode is formed prior to contacting said lithium electrode with said electrolyte.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4, wherein said surface coating is formed by contacting said surface of said lithium electrode with LiAlCl.sub.4.3SO.sub.4.
The electrochemical cell of claim 5, wherein said surface coating comprises a reaction product of lithium metal and LiAlCl.sub.4.3SO.sub.4.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6, wherein said surface coating comprises Li.sub.2 S.sub.2 O.sub.4.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3, wherein said surface coating of said lithium electrode is formed after contacting said lithium electrode with said electrolyte.
The electrochemical cell of claim 8, wherein said surface coating of said lithium electrode is formed by the reaction of a chemical species in said electrolyte that is effective to form an alloy with lithium metal.
The electrochemical cell of claim 9, wherein said chemical species includes a mutivalent transition- or alkaline earth metal.
The electrochemical cell of claim 10, wherein said multivalent metal is a salt of a metal selected from the group consisting of Mg, Al, Bi, Sn, Pb, Cd, Si, In, and Ga, said salt being soluble in said electrolyte.
An electrochemical cell, comprising an electrode and an electrolyte containing one or more sulfur compounds including at least one of elemental sulfur, sulfides, and polysulfides, said electrolyte including a reagent that is effective to form a substantially insoluble metal-sulfide complex in said electrolyte to increase thereby the cycling efficiency of said electrode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 12, wherein said electrode is a lithium electrode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 13, wherein said lithium electrode is combined with a sulfur-containing electrode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 14, wherein said reagent is a salt of Ba or Mo.
The electrochemical cell of claim 15, wherein said reagent is a salt of Ba.
The electrochemical cell of claim 14, wherein said sulfur-containing electrode includes at least one of elemental sulfur, sulfides, and polysulfides.
The electrochemical cell of claim 17, wherein said active sulfur-containing electrode further includes an ionically conductive material.
The electrochemical cell of claim 18, wherein said ionically conductive material is a polyalkyleneoxide.
An electrochemical cell, comprising a lithium-tin alloy, the surface of said electrode including a lithium oxide coating, and a sulfur electrode including at least one of elemental sulfur, a lithium sulfide, or a lithium polysulfide.
The electrochemical cell of claim 20, wherein said electrolyte includes at least one of elemental sulfur, a sulfide, or a polysulfide.
A battery cell comprising: a. a positive electrode comprising a mixture of i. an electrochemically active material, and ii.
an electronically conductive material, b. a negative electrode comprising a lithium metal electrode surface including a surface coating that is effective to increase the cycling efficiency of said electrochemical cell; and c. an electrolyte electronically separating the positive and negative electrodes; wherein said electrochemically active material includes at least one component selected from the group consisting of elemental sulfur, sulfides of lithium, polysulfides of lithium, and combinations thereof.
The battery cell of claim 22, wherein said surface coating is formed by contacting said surface of said lithium electrode with LiAlCl.sub.4.3SO.sub.4.
The battery cell of claim 23, wherein said surface coating comprises a reaction product of lithium metal and LiAlCl.sub.4.3SO.sub.4.
The battery cell of claim 24, wherein said surface coating comprises Li.sub.2 S.sub.2 O.sub.4.
A battery cell comprising: a. a positive electrode comprising a mixture of i. an electrochemically active material, and ii.
an electronically conductive material, b. a negative electrode comprising a lithium-tin alloy and lithium oxide composite; c. an electrolyte electronically separating the positive and negative electrodes; wherein said electrochemically active material includes at least one component selected from the group consisting of elemental sulfur, sulfides of lithium, polysulfides of lithium, and combinations thereof.
Liquid electrolyte lithium-sulfur batteries
Disclosed are electrolyte solvents for ambient-temperature lithium-sulfur batteries.
The disclosed solvents include at least one ethoxy repeating unit compound of the general formula R.sub.1 (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n R.sub.2, where n ranges between 2 and 10 and R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 are different or identical alkyl or alkoxy groups (including substituted alkyl or alkoxy groups).
Alternatively, R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 may together with (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n form a closed ring.
Examples of linear solvents include the glymes (CH.sub.3 O(CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2).sub.n CH.sub.3).
Some electrolyte solvents include a donor or acceptor solvent in addition to an ethoxy compound as described.
Examples of donor solvents include hexamethylphosphoramide, pyridine, N,N-diethylacetamide, N,N-diethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetramethylurea, N,N-dimethylacetamide, N,N-dimethylformamide, tributylphosphate, trimethylphosphate, N,N,N',N'-tetraethylsulfamide, tetramethylenediamine, tetramethylpropylenediamine, and pentamethyldiethylenetriamine.
These assist in solvation of lithium ions.
Examples of acceptor solvents include alcohols, glycols, and polyglycols.
These assist in solvation of the sulfide and polysulfide anions.
A battery cell comprising: a) a negative electrode including a metal or an ion of the metal; b) a positive electrode comprising a mixture of i) an electrochemically active material comprising sulfur in the form of at least one of elemental sulfur, a sulfide of the metal, and a polysulfide of the metal, and ii) an electronically conductive material; and c) a liquid electrolyte including a i) main solvent having the chemical formula R.sub.1 (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n R.sub.2, where n ranges between 2 and 10, R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 are different or identical groups selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxy, substituted alkyl, and substituted alkoxy groups; and ii) a cosolvent having a donor number of at least about 15.
The battery cell of claim 1, wherein at least about 10% of the sulfur in the positive electrode is utilized in at least 50 cycles, wherein 100% utilization corresponds to 1675 mAh/g of the sulfur in the battery cell.
The battery cell of claim 2, wherein at least about 20% of the sulfur in the positive electrode is utilized in at least 50 successive cycles, wherein 100% utilization corresponds to 1675 mAh/g of the sulfur in the positive electrode.
The battery cell of claim 1, wherein the solvent is a polyglyme of the chemical formula CH.sub.3 O(CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n CH.sub.3.
The battery cell of claim 4, wherein the solvent is tetraglyme, CH.sub.3 O(CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.4 CH.sub.3.
The battery cell of claim 1, wherein R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 together with (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n form a closed ring.
The battery cell of claim 1, wherein the donor solvent is present in a concentration of at least about 10% by volume.
The battery cell of claim 1, wherein the donor solvent is at least one of hexamethylphosphoramide, pyridine, N,N-diethylacetamide, N,N-diethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetramethylurea, N,N-dimethylacetamide, N,N-dimethylformamide, tributylphosphate, trimethylphosphate N,N,N',N'-tetraethylsulfamide, tetramethylenediamine, tetramethylpropylenediamine, and pentamethyldiethylenetriamine.
The battery cell of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte solvent comprises an acceptor solvent.
The battery cell of claim 9, wherein the acceptor solvent is at least one of methanol, ethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, nitromethane, trifluoroacetic acid, trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, sulfur dioxide, and boron trifluoride.
The battery cell of claim 1, wherein the metal in the negative electrode is at least one of sodium and lithium.
The battery cell of claim 11, wherein the metal in the negative electrode is lithium.
The battery cell of claim 1, wherein the negative electrode is a lithium intercalation electrode.
The battery cell of claim 1, wherein the electronic conductor of the positive electrode is at least one of carbon and an electronically conductive polymer.
A battery cell comprising: a) a negative electrode including a metal or an ion of the metal; b) a positive electrode comprising a mixture of i) an electrochemically active material comprising sulfur in the form of at least one of elemental sulfur, a sulfide of the metal, and a polysulfide of the metal, and ii) an electronically conductive material; and c) a liquid electrolyte including a solvent having at least one of a crown ether and a cryptand, and a donor solvent.
The battery cell of claim 15, wherein at least about 10% of the sulfur in the positive electrode is utilized in at least 50 cycles, wherein 100% utilization corresponds to 1675 mAh/g of the sulfur in the battery cell.
The battery cell of claim 16, wherein at least about 20% of the sulfur in the positive electrode is utilized in at least 50 successive cycles, wherein 100% utilization corresponds to 1675 mAh/g of the sulfur in the positive electrode.
The battery cell of claim 15, wherein the solvent is a crown ether.
The battery cell of claim 18, wherein the crown ether is at least one of 18-crown-6, 15-crown-5, dibenzo-18-crown-6, and 12-crown-4.
The battery cell of claim 15, wherein the solvent is a cryptand.
The battery cell of claim 15, wherein the donor solvent is at least one of hexamethylphosphoramide, pyridine, N,N-diethylacetamide, N,N-diethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetramethylurea, N,N-dimethylacetamide, N,N-dimethylformamide, tributylphosphate, trimethylphosphate, N,N,N',N'-tetraethylsulfamide, tetramethylenediamine, tetramethylpropylenediamine, and pentamethyldiethylenetriamine.
The battery cell of claim 15, wherein the electrolyte further comprises an acceptor solvent.
The battery cell of claim 22, wherein the acceptor solvent is at least one of methanol, ethylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, nitromethane, trifluoroacetic acid, trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, sulfur dioxide, and boron trifluoride.
The battery cell of claim 15, wherein the metal in the negative electrode is at least one of sodium and lithium.
The battery cell of claim 24, wherein the metal in the negative electrode is lithium.
The battery cell of claim 15, wherein the negative electrode is a lithium intercalation electrode.
The battery cell of claim 15, wherein the electronic conductor of the positive electrode is at least one of carbon and an electronically conductive polymer.
A rechargeable battery cell comprising: a) a negative electrode including a metal or an ion of the metal; b) a positive electrode comprising a mixture of an electrochemically active material comprising sulfur in the form of at least one of elemental sulfur, a sulfide of the metal, and a polysulfide of the metal, and an electronically conductive material; and c) a liquid electrolyte including a solvent for at least some discharge products of the positive electrode, wherein the rechargeable battery cell is characterized by at least one of the following criteria: i) the battery cell attains at least about 10% utilization over at least fifty cycles, and ii) the battery cell attains at least about 50% utilization over two or more cycles.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the battery cell attains at least about 30% utilization over at least fifty cycles.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the battery cell attains at least about 50% utilization over at least 10 cycles.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the battery cell attains at least about 50% utilization over at least 75 cycles.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the metal and a negative electrode is at least one of sodium and lithium.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the negative electrode is a lithium intercalation electrode.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the electronic conductor of the positive electrode is at least one of carbon and an electronically conductive polymer.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the liquid electrolyte solvent has the chemical formula R.sub.1 (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n R.sub.2, wherein n ranges between 2 and 10, R.sub.1, and R.sub.2, are different or identical groups selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxy, substituted alkyl, and substituted alkoxy groups.
The battery cell of claim 33, wherein R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 together with (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n form a closed ring.
The battery cell of claim 33, wherein the electrolyte further comprises a donor solvent.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the battery cell is characterized by a separation distanced between a back boundary where a catholyte is farthest removed from the negative electrode and a front boundary where the catholyte is nearest the negative electrode, wherein the separation distance is not greater than about 400 micrometers.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the electronically conductive material comprises an interconnected matrix.
The battery cell of claim 28, wherein the cell discharges at an average current density of at least about 0.5 mA/cm.sup.2 over at least 50 cycles in criteria (i) and at least 2 cycles in criteria (ii).
A battery cell comprising: a) a negative electrode including a metal or an ion of the metal; b) a positive electrode comprising a mixture of i) an electrochemically active material comprising sulfur in the form of at least one of elemental sulfur, a sulfide of the metal, and a polysulfide of the metal, and ii) an electronically conductive material; and c) a liquid electrolyte defining a catholyte of the solvent and dissolved discharged products from the positive electrode, wherein the battery cell is characterized by a separation distanced between a back boundary where the catholyte is farthest removed from the negative electrode and a front boundary where the catholyte is nearest the negative electrode, wherein the separation distance is not greater than about 400 micrometers.
The battery cell of claim 41, wherein the separation distance is not greater than about 300 micrometers.
The battery cell of claim 41, wherein the battery cell comprises two positive electrodes with the negative electrode disposed therebetween.
The battery cell of claim 41, wherein electronically conductive material comprises an interconnected matrix.
The battery cell of claim 41, wherein the positive electrode is disposed on positive current collector.
The battery cell of claim 41, wherein the catholyte concentration is between about 3 and 30 moles of sulfur per liter.
The battery cell of claim 46, wherein the catholyte concentration is between about 7 and 25 mole of sulfur per liter.
The battery cell of claim 47, wherein the catholyte to concentration is between about 10 and 20 moles of sulfur per liter.
The battery cell of claim 41, wherein the separation distance is not greater than about 150 micrometers.
Multiple-doped oxide cathode material for secondary lithium and  lithium-ion batteries
The present invention provides a positive electrode material for lithium and lithium-ion secondary cells which exhibits good cycleability, reversible specific capacity, and structural stability.
The positive electrode material comprises a lithium multi metal oxide having a spinel structure and described by the general formula: wherein M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k are at least two cations different than lithium or manganese, selected from the group consisting of alkaline earth metals, transition metals, B, Al, Si, Ga and Ge; X, Y, m.sub.1,m.sub.2, .
.
.
m.sub.k are numbers between 0 and 0.2; m.sub.1, m.sub.2 and Y are greater than 0; Z is a number between -0.1 and 0.2; and wherein the metals M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k and the corresponding values m.sub.1, m.sub.2, .
.
.
m.sub.k satisfy the following equation and inequality: ##EQU1## wherein V.sub.1, V.sub.2, .
.
.
V.sub.k are the corresponding valence states of the cations M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k.
A positive electrode for secondary lithium and lithium-ion batteries comprising a multiple-doped lithium manganese metal oxide with a spinel structure and described by the general formula: wherein M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k are at least two different cations other than lithium or manganese, selected from the group consisting of alkali metals, alkaline earth metals, transition metals, B, Al, Si, Ga and Ge; X, Y, m.sub.1, m.sub.2, .
.
.
m.sub.k are between 0 and 0.2; m.sub.1, m.sub.2 and Y are greater than 0; Z is a number between -0.1 and 0.2; and wherein m.sub.1, m.sub.2, .
.
.
m.sub.k satisfy the following equation and inequality: ##EQU8## wherein V.sub.1, V.sub.2, .
.
.
V.sub.k are the corresponding valence states of the cations M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k.
The positive electrode according to claim 1, said metal oxide satisfying the following relationship: ##EQU9## wherein V.sub.1,V.sub.2, .
.
.
V.sub.k are the corresponding valence states of the cations M.sup.1,M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k.
The positive electrode according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.1 is Co and M.sup.2 is Ti.
The positive electrode according to claim 3 wherein m.sub.1 =m.sub.2.
The positive electrode according to claim 1 wherein the unit cell parameter (a) of the multiple-doped lithium manganese metal oxide is within about .+-.0.0015 .ANG.
of the unit cell parameter (a) of the corresponding unsubstituted Li.sub.1+X Mn.sub.2-X O.sub.4 spinel.
The positive electrode according to claim 1 wherein the unit cell parameter (a) of the multiple-doped lithium manganese metal oxide is within about .+-.0.0005 .ANG.
of the unit cell parameter (a) of the corresponding unsubstituted Li.sub.1+X Mn.sub.2-X O.sub.4 spinel.
The positive electrode according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k are selected from the group consisting of aluminum, cobalt, chromium, copper, iron, gallium, magnesium, nickel, germanium, molybdenum, niobium, titanium, vanadium and tungsten.
A positive electrode for secondary lithium and lithium-ion batteries comprising a multiple-doped lithium manganese metal oxide material with a spinel structure and a composition described by the formula: wherein X and m are between 0 and 0.2 and Z is between -0.1 and 0.2.
A multiple-doped lithium manganese metal oxide having a spinel structure and described by the general formula: wherein M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k are at least two different cations other than lithium or manganese, selected from the group consisting of alkali metals, alkaline earth metals, transition metals, B, Al, Si, Ga and Ge; X, Y, m.sub.1, m.sub.2, .
.
.
m.sub.k are between 0 and 0.2; m.sub.1, m.sub.2 and Y are greater than 0; Z is a number between -0.1 and 0.2; and wherein m.sub.1, m.sub.2, .
.
.
m.sub.k satisfy the following equation and inequality: ##EQU10## wherein V.sub.1, V.sub.2 .
.
.
V.sub.k are the corresponding valence states of the cations M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k.
The metal oxide according to claim 9 satisfying the following relationship: ##EQU11## wherein V.sub.1,V.sub.2, .
.
.
V.sub.k are the corresponding valence states of the cations M.sup.1,M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k.
The metal oxide according to claim 9 wherein M.sup.1 is Co and M.sup.2 is Ti.
The metal oxide according to claim 11 wherein m.sub.1 =m.sub.2.
The metal oxide according to claim 9 having a unit cell parameter (a) within about .+-.0.0015 .ANG.
of the unit cell parameter of the corresponding unsubstituted Li.sub.1+X Mn.sub.2-X O.sub.4 spinel.
The metal oxide according to claim 9 having a unit cell parameter (a) within about .+-.0.0005 .ANG.
of the unit cell parameter of the corresponding unsubstituted Li.sub.1+X Mn.sub.2-X O.sub.4 spinel.
The metal oxide according to claim 9 wherein M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k are selected from the group consisting of aluminum, cobalt, chromium, copper, iron, gallium, magnesium, nickel, germanium, molybdenum, niobium, titanium, vanadium and tungsten.
A multiple-doped lithium manganese metal oxide with a spinel structure and described by the formula: wherein X and m are between 0 and 0.2 and Z is between -0.1 and 0.2.
The positive electrode according to claim 1, wherein M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k in said metal oxide are selected from the group consisting of alkaline earth metals, transition metals, B, Al, Si, Ga and Ge.
The metal oxide according to claim 9, wherein M.sup.1, M.sup.2, .
.
.
M.sup.k are selected from the group consisting of alkaline earth metals, transition metals, B, Al, Si, Ga and Ge.
Electrochemical storage cell containing a substituted anisole or  di-anisole redox shuttle additive for overcharge protection and  suitable for use in liquid organic and solid polymer electrolytes
A electrochemical cell is described comprising an anode, a cathode, a solid polymer electrolyte, and a redox shuttle additive to protect the cell against overcharging and a redox shuttle additive to protect the cell against overcharging selected from the group consisting of: (a) a substituted anisole having the general formula (in an uncharged state): ##STR1## where R.sub.1 is selected from the group consisting of H, OCH.sub.3, OCH.sub.2 CH.sub.3, and OCH.sub.2 phenyl, and R.sub.2 is selected from the group consisting of OCH.sub.3, OCH.sub.2 CH.sub.3, OCH.sub.2 phenyl, and O.sup.- Li.sup.+ ; and (b) a di-anisole compound having the general formula (in an uncharged state): ##STR2## where R is selected from the group consisting of -OCH.sub.3 and -CH.sub.3, m is either 1 or 0, n is either 1 or 0, and X is selected from the group consisting of -OCH.sub.3 (methoxy) or its lithium salt --O.sup.- Li.sup.+.
The lithium salt of the di-anisole is the preferred form of the redox shuttle additive because the shuttle anion will then initially have a single negative charge, it loses two electrons when it is oxidized at the cathode, and then moves toward the anode as a single positively charged species where it is then reduced to a single negatively charged species by gaining back two electrons.
An electrochemical cell having an anode, a cathode, an electrolyte, and a redox shuttle additive to protect the cell against overcharging selected from the group consisting of selected from the group consisting of: (a) a substituted anisole having the general formula (in an uncharged state): ##STR12## where R.sub.1 is selected from the group consisting of H, OCH.sub.3, OCH.sub.2 CH.sub.3, and OCH.sub.2 phenyl, and R.sub.2 is selected from the group consisting of OCH.sub.3, OCH.sub.2 CH.sub.3, OCH.sub.2 phenyl, and O.sup.- Li.sup.+ ; and (b) a di-anisole compound having the general formula (in an uncharged state): ##STR13## where R is selected from the group consisting of -OCH.sub.3 and -CH.sub.3, m is either 1 or 0, n is either 1 or 0, and X is selected from the group consisting of -OCH.sub.3 (methoxy) or its lithium salt --O.sup.- Li.sup.+.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein said electrolyte comprises a solid polymer electrolyte.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein said redox shuttle additive comprises said substituted anisole having the general formula (in an uncharged state): ##STR14## where R.sub.1 is selected from the group consisting of H, OCH.sub.3, OCH.sub.2 CH.sub.3, and OCH.sub.2 phenyl, and R.sub.2 is selected from the group consisting of OCH.sub.3, OCH.sub.2 CH.sub.3, OCH.sub.2 phenyl, and O.sup.- Li.sup.+.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2 wherein said redox shuttle additive comprises said di-anisole compound having the general formula (in an uncharged state): ##STR15## where R is selected from the group consisting of --OCH.sub.3 and --CH.sub.3, m is either 1 or 0, n is either 1 or 0, and X is selected from the group consisting of --OCH.sub.3 (methoxy) or its lithium salt --O.sup.- Li.sup.+.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4 wherein X is --O.sup.- Li.sup.+.
The electrochemical cell of claim 5 wherein m and n are each 0.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6 wherein said di-anisole redox shuttle additive is further characterized by an onset voltage of about 4.1 volts.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6 wherein said anode contains lithium.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6 wherein said solid polymer electrolyte includes a lithium salt.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6 wherein said solid polymer electrolyte also contains an organic polymer.
The electrochemical cell of claim 10 wherein said polymer in said solid electrolyte comprises a polyether.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6 wherein said cathode includes a lithium salt.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6 wherein said anode, said cathode, said solid polymer electrolyte, and said di-anisole redox shuttle additive which protects said cell against overcharging are each capable of functioning in said cell at an elevated temperature of at least about 85.degree.
C. 14.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4 wherein the concentration of said di-anisole redox shuttle additive in said cell is sufficient to permit said di-anisole redox shuttle additive to carry all of the charging current when said cell is being overcharged.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4 wherein m and n are each 1.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4 wherein m is 1 and n is 0.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4 wherein m is 0 and n is 1.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein said electrolyte comprises a liquid organic electrolyte.
An electrochemical cell having an anode, a cathode, a solid polymer electrolyte, and a redox shuttle additive to protect the cell against overcharging comprising a lithium salt of a di-anisole compound having the general formula: ##STR16## where R is selected from the group consisting of -OCH.sub.3 and -CH.sub.3, m is either 1 or 0, and n is either 1 or 0.
The electrochemical cell of claim 19 wherein m and n are each 0, and said di-anisole redox shuttle additive is further characterized by an onset voltage of about 4.1 volts.
The electrochemical cell of claim 20 wherein said anode contains lithium.
The electrochemical cell of claim 20 wherein said solid polymer electrolyte includes a lithium salt.
The electrochemical cell of claim 20 wherein said cathode includes a lithium salt.
A rechargeable lithium electrochemical cell having a anode containing lithium, a cathode which includes a lithium salt, a solid polymer electrolyte which includes a lithium salt, and a redox shuttle additive to protect the cell against overcharging comprising a lithium salt of a di-anisole compound having the formula: ##STR17## wherein said redox shuttle additive comprising said lithium salt of said di-anisole will protect said cell form overcharging beyond a voltage of about 4.1 volts.
Lithium-ion rechargeable battery with carbon-based anode
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery with carbon-based anode comprising a cathode based on a lithium intercalating compound, such as a lithium-free or a lithiated compound, a non-aqueous lithium ion-conducting electrolyte and a carbon-based anode, wherein said carbon-based anode comprises, as the starting active material before the first cycle of the battery, the potassium intercalated graphite of the formula KC.sub.8 (first stage potassium graphite intercalation compound), optionally together with a binder.
After the first discharge cycle of the battery, most potassium ions are released from the intercalation compound, but the structure of the anode compound maintains an "expanded" interlayer distance, which greatly enhances the kinetics of the electrochemical process, thus resulting in a high-rate carbon anode.
The positive counterelectrode material may be chosen both among lithiated and among lithium-free intercalation compounds.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery with carbon-based anode comprising a cathode based on a lithium intercalating compound, a non-aqueous lithium ion-conducting electrolyte and a carbon-based anode, characterized in that said carbon-based anode comprises, as the starting active material before the first cycle of the battery, the potassium intercalated graphite of the formula KC.sub.8 (first stage potassium graphite intercalation compound).
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery with carbon-based anode comprising a cathode based on a lithium intercalating compound, a non-aqueous lithium ion-conducting electrolyte and a carbon-based anode, characterized in that said carbon-based anode comprises, as the active material, a graphite intercalation compound resulting from the cycling of the potassium intercalated graphite of the formula KC.sub.8 (first stage potassium graphite intercalation compound).
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 1 wherein said carbon-based anode is binder-free, and is obtained by pressing said potassium intercalated graphite of the formula KC.sub.8, previously prepared, on a metal current collector.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 1 wherein said carbon-based anode is binder-free, and is obtained by chemical intercalation of potassium in a graphite film directly provided as a coating onto a metal current collector.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 1 wherein said carbon-based anode also comprises from 3 to 10% by weight of a binder, or of a mixture of binders.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 5, wherein said binder is chosen from the group consisting of polyvinylidene fluoride, polyethylene, polytetrafluoroethylene and polyvinylchloride.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 1 wherein said lithium intercalating compound, before the first cycle of the battery, is a lithium-free compound.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 7, wherein said lithium-free compound is chosen from the group consisting of: V.sub.2 O.sub.5, TiS.sub.2, MnO.sub.2, Cr.sub.2 O.sub.5, MoS.sub.2, Mo.sub.6 S.sub.8, V.sub.6 O.sub.13, NbSe.sub.3.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 1 wherein said lithium intercalating compound, before the first cycle of the battery, is a lithiated metal oxide or chalcogenide.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 9, wherein said lithiated metal oxide is a lithiated transition metal oxide, wherein part of the lithium is optionally substituted with sodium.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 10, wherein said lithiated transition metal oxide is chosen from the group consisting of: Li.sub.1/3 Na.sub.
(1+x) V.sub.3 O.sub.8, LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMnO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4, LiFeO.sub.2.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 1 wherein said non-aqueous lithium ion-conducting electrolyte is liquid.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 12, wherein said electrolyte consists of a solution of a lithium salt in an organic solvent or in a mixture of organic solvents.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 13, wherein said lithium salt is chosen from the group consisting of: LiClO.sub.4, LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6 and LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 14, wherein said organic solvent is chosen from the group consisting of: ethylene carbonate, dimethylcarbonate, propylene carbonate, diethylcarbonate, dimethoxyethane, diethoxyethane, methylformate, methylacetate and mixtures thereof.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 1 wherein said non-aqueous lithium ion-conducting electrolyte is solid.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 16, wherein said electrolyte is a complex of a polymer with a lithium salt, or is a polymer matrix soaked with a liquid polymer.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 2, wherein said carbon-based anode is binder-free, and is obtained by pressing said potassium intercalated graphite of the formula KC.sub.8, previously prepared, on a metal current collector.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 2, wherein said carbon-basad anode is binder-free, and is obtained by chemical intercalation of potassium in a graphite film directly provided as a coating onto a metal current collector.
A lithium-ion rechargeable battery according to claim 2, wherein said carbon-based anode also comprises from 3 to 10% by weight of a binder, or of a mixture of binders.
Nanodisperse transition metal electrodes (NTME) for electrochemical cells
Disclosed are transition metal electrodes for electrochemical cells using gel-state and solid-state polymers.
The electrodes are suitable for use in primary and secondary cells.
The electrodes (either negative electrode or positive electrode) are characterized by uniform dispersion of the transition metal at the nanoscale in the polymer.
The transition metal moiety is structurally amorphous, so no capacity fade should occur due to lattice expansion/contraction mechanisms.
The small grain size, amorphous structure and homogeneous distribution provide improved charge/discharge cycling performance, and a higher initial discharge rate capability.
The cells can be cycled at high current densities, limited only by the electrolyte conductivity.
A method of making the electrodes (positive and negative), and their usage in electrochemical cells are disclosed.
An electrode for an electrochemical cell, said electrode comprising: a) a precipitation product of mixing a first solution comprising dissolved forms of a transition metal and a first polymer with a second solution comprising dissolved forms of an ion source material and a second polymer, throughout which the transition metal, ion source material and polymers have been uniformly dispersed, b) wherein said precipitation product comprises an amorphous complex of nanoscale particle size transition metal, polymers and ion source material, said transition metal having been oxidized during the precipitate synthesis process; c) and further comprising an electronically conductive material dispersed within said complex.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said electrochemical cell is a primary cell.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said electrochemical cell is a secondary cell.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer is a solid state polymer.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer is a gel-state polymer.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said ion source material is an alkali metal.
An electrode as recited in claim 6, wherein said alkali metal is lithium.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethers, polyimines, polythioethers, polyphosphazenes, polymer blends of the foregoing four polymers, copolymers of the foregoing four polymers, and polymers with oxygen in the backbone.
An electrode as recited in claim 8, wherein said polyether polymer is a polyalkylene oxide.
An electrode as recited in claim 9, wherein said polyalkylene oxide is polyethylene oxide.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer is polyacrylonitrile.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer is polyvinyl chloride.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said electrode is a positive electrode.
An electrode as recited in claim 13, wherein said transition metal is selected from the group consisting of nickel, cobalt and manganese.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said electrode is a negative electrode.
An electrode as recited in claim 15, wherein said transition metal is selected from the group consisting of iron and titanium.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said electronically conductive material is carbon.
An electrode as recited in claim 1, wherein said electronically conductive material is an electronically conductive polymer.
An electrode as recited in claim 1 wherein said transition metal is between about 10% to about 70% in percent by weight.
An electrode as recited in claim 1 wherein said polymer is between about 15% to about 75% in percent by weight.
An electrode as recited in claim 1 wherein said electronically conductive material is between about 5% to about 40% in percent by weight.
A method of making an electrode for an electrochemical cell, said method comprising the steps of: a) dissolving a first polymer in a first solvent to form a first solution; b) dissolving a second polymer in a second solvent to form a second solution; c) dissolving a transition metal salt in said first solution; d) dissolving an ion source material in said second solution; e) combining said first and second solutions to form a mixture; f) stirring said mixture to form a precipitate; g) stirring said mixture until a stable suspension is formed; h) adding electronic conductive material to said mixture; i) stirring said mixture to incorporate said electronic conductive material; j) and removing said first and second solvents from said mixture to form a film.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said solvents removal step is accomplished by evaporation.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said polymer dissolving steps comprise dissolving solid state polymers.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said polymer dissolving steps comprise dissolving polymers selected from the group consisting of polyethers, polyimines, polythioethers, polyphosphazenes, polymer blends of the foregoing four polymers, copolymers of the foregoing four polymers, and polymers with oxygen in the backbone.
The method as recited in claim 25, wherein said polymer dissolving steps comprise dissolving polyalkylene oxide.
The method as recited in claim 26, wherein said polymer dissolving steps comprise dissolving polyethylene oxide.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said polymer dissolving steps comprise dissolving polyacrylonitrile.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said polymer dissolving steps comprise dissolving polyvinyl chloride.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said ion source material dissolving step comprises dissolving an alkali metal as the ion source material.
The method as recited in claim 30, wherein said ion source material dissolving step comprises dissolving lithium as the alkali metal.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said transition metal dissolving step comprises dissolving a transition metal selected from the group consisting of nickel, cobalt and manganese.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said transition metal dissolving step comprises dissolving a transition metal selected from the group consisting of iron and titanium.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said electronically conductive material addition step comprises adding carbon as the electronically conductive material.
The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said electronically conductive material addition step comprises adding an electronically conductive polymer as the electronically conductive material.
An electrochemical cell comprising: a) a positive electrode made in accordance with the method as recited in claim 22; b) a negative electrode; c) and an ionically conductive material disposed between and in physical contact with said positive and negative electrodes.
An electrochemical cell as recited in claim 36 wherein said ion source material is an alkali metal.
An electrochemical cell as recited in claim 36 wherein said transition metal is selected from the group consisting of nickel, cobalt and manganese.
An electrochemical cell as recited in claim 36 wherein said ionically conductive material is a polymer electrolyte.
An electrochemical cell as recited in claim 36 where said negative electrode is a lithium electrode.
An electrochemical cell comprising: a) a positive electrode; b) a negative electrode made in accordance with the method as recited in claim 22; c) and an ionically conductive material disposed between and in physical contact with said positive and negative electrodes.
An electrochemical cell as recited in claim 41 wherein said ion source material is an alkali metal.
An electrochemical cell as recited in claim 41 wherein said transition metal is selected from the group consisting of iron and titanium.
An electrochemical cell as recited in claim 41 wherein said ionically conductive material is a polymer electrolyte.
Totally-solid lithium secondary battery
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery can be improved in charge and discharge characteristics by adding to the negative electrode a first transition metal chalcogenide or lithium.cndot.transition metal chalcogenide which acts as the active material for negative electrode and a second transition metal chalcogenide or lithium.cndot.transition metal chalcogenide which inhibits precipitation of metallic lithium.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery which comprises a positive electrode, an electrolyte comprising mainly a sulfide based lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte comprising mainly a sulfide, and a negative electrode containing (a) at least one first transition metal chalcogenide or lithium transition metal chalcogenide and (b) at least one second transition metal chalcogenide or lithium transition metal chalcogenide, and in which oxidation-reduction potential of said second transition metal chalcogenide or lithium transition metal chalcogenide is lower than that of said first transition metal chalcogenide or lithium transition metal chalcogenide in the operation of charging and discharging of the totally-solid lithium secondary battery.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the transition metal of the first transition metal chalcogenide or lithium.cndot.transition metal chalcogenide is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of iron, cobalt and nickel.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 2, wherein when the first lithium transition metal chalcogenide is represented by Li.sub.x MeX.sub.y, wherein Li is lithium, Me is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of iron, cobalt and nickel, X is chalcogen, and x and y are numerals corresponding to the compositional ratio of said constituents Li and X, respectively, the minimum formal charge (n) of the metal during the operation of the lithium secondary battery satisfies +2.gtoreq.n.gtoreq.0, with a proviso that the formal charge of the chalcogen is -2 and the formal charge of lithium is +1.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the transition metal of the second transition metal chalcogenide or lithium.cndot.transition metal chalcogenide is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of vanadium, titanium, chromium, molybdenum, niobium and manganese.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the chalcogen element is sulfur.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the sulfide-based lithium ion conductive solid electrolyte has a bridging oxygen.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein an active material for the positive electrode is a lithium-containing transition metal oxide.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery which comprises a positive electrode, an electrolyte comprising mainly a sulfide based lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte comprising mainly a sulfide, and a negative electrode containing (a) at least one first transition metal chalcogenide or lithium transition metal chalcogenide and (b) at least one second transition metal chalcogenide or lithium transition metal chalcogenide, and in which said first transition metal chalcogenide or lithium transition metal chalcogenide performs an oxidation-reduction reaction and said second transition metal chalcogenide or lithium-transition metal chalcogenide shows a mixed conductivity of electron-lithium ion in the operation of charging and discharging of the totally-solid lithium secondary battery.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 8, wherein the transition metal of the first transition metal chalcogenide or lithium transition metal chalcogenide is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of iron, cobalt and nickel.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 9, wherein when the first lithium transition metal chalcogenide is represented by Li.sub.x MeX.sub.y, wherein Li is lithium, Me is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of iron, cobalt and nickel, X is chalcogen, and x and y are numerals corresponding to the compositional ratio of said constituents Li and X, respectively, the minimum formal charge (n) of the metal during the operation of the lithium secondary battery satisfies +2.gtoreq.n.gtoreq.0, with a proviso that the formal charge of the chalcogen is -2 and the formal charge of lithium is +1.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 8, wherein the transition metal of the second transition metal chalcogenide or lithium transition metal chalcogenide is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of vanadium, titanium, chromium, molybdenum, niobium and manganese.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 8, wherein the chalcogen element is sulfur.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 8, wherein the sulfide-based lithium ion conductive solid electrolyte has a bridging oxygen.
A totally-solid lithium secondary battery according to claim 8, wherein an active material for the positive electrode is a lithium-containing transition metal oxide.
Lithium secondary battery
A lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte is used as an electrolyte in a lithium secondary battery which uses a transition metal chalcogenide or a lithium.cndot.
transition metal chalcogenide as an active material for negative electrode.
There is provided a lithium secondary battery improved in reversibility and in charge and discharge cycle characteristics as compared with lithium secondary batteries which use a liquid electrolyte or a molten salt electrolyte as the electrolyte.
A lithium secondary battery which comprises a positive electrode, a negative electrode containing an active material comprising mainly at least one transition metal chalcogenide, and an electrolyte comprising mainly a sulfide-based lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte comprising mainly a sulfide.
A lithium secondary battery which comprises a positive electrode, a negative electrode containing an active material comprising mainly at least one lithium transition metal chalcogenide, and an electrolyte comprising mainly a sulfide-based lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte comprising mainly a sulfide.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the transition metal is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of iron, cobalt and nickel.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 3, wherein when the lithium.cndot.
transition metal chalcogenide is represented by Li.sub.x FeS.sub.y (Li: lithium, Me: at least one metal selected from the group consisting of iron, cobalt and nickel, X: chalcogen, and x and y are numerals corresponding to the compositional ratio of the elements), the minimum formal charge (n) of the transition metal element during the operation of the lithium secondary battery satisfies +2.gtoreq.n.gtoreq.0, with a proviso that the formal charge of the chalcogen is -2 and the formal charge of lithium is +1.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the transition metal is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of vanadium, titanium, chromium, molybdenum, niobium and manganese.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 5, wherein when the lithium.cndot.
transition metal chalcogenide is represented by Li.sub.x MeX.sub.y (Li: lithium, Me: at least one metal selected from the group consisting of vanadium, titanium, chromium, molybdenum, niobium and manganese, X: chalcogen, and x and y are numerals corresponding to the compositional ratio of the elements), the minimum formal charge (n) of the transition metal element during the operation of the lithium secondary battery satisfies +3.gtoreq.n.gtoreq.0, with a proviso that the formal charge of the chalcogen is -2 and the formal charge of lithium is +1.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the chalcogen element is sulfur.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the sulfide-based lithium ion conductive solid electrolyte has a bridging oxygen.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein an active material for the positive electrode is a lithium-containing transition metal oxide.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 2, wherein the transition metal is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of iron, cobalt and nickel.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 10, wherein when the lithium transition metal chalcogenide is represented by Li.sub.x MeX.sub.y (Li: lithium, Me: at least one metal selected from the group consisting of iron, cobalt and nickel, X: chalcogen, and x and y are numerals corresponding to the compositional ratio of the elements), the minimum formal charge (n) of the transition metal element during the operation of the lithium secondary battery satisfies +2.gtoreq.n.gtoreq.0, with a proviso that the formal charge of the chalcogen is -2 and the formal charge of lithium is +1.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 2, wherein the transition metal is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of vanadium, titanium, chromium, molybdenum, niobium and manganese.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 12, wherein the lithium transition metal chalcogenide is represented by Li.sub.x MeX.sub.y (Li: lithium, Me: at least one metal selected from the group consisting of vanadium, titanium, chromium, molybdenum, niobium and manganese, X: chalcogen, and x and y are numerals corresponding to the compositional ratio of the elements), the minimum formal charge (n) of the transition metal element during the operation of the lithium secondary battery satisfies +3>n>0, with a proviso that the formal charge of the chalcogen is -2 and the formal charge of lithium is +1.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 2, wherein the chalcogen element is sulfur.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 2, wherein the sulfide-based lithium ion conductive solid electrolyte has a bridging oxygen.
A lithium secondary battery according to claim 2, wherein an active material for the positive electrode is a lithium-containing transition metal oxide.
Lithium battery
The present invention related to a lithium battery comprising a pair of electrodes disposed by means of a separator in the presence of a lithium ion conductive electrolyte, wherein at least one of said electrodes comprises a lithium iron oxide having a corrugated layer crystal structure and represented by the formula (1): wherein M represents at least one element selected from the group consisting of cobalt, nickel, manganese and aluminum, x is more than 0 and less than 2, and y is 0.005 to 0.1, Which has improved battery characteristics, an excellent cycle life and a higher electric current operated.
A lithium battery comprising a pair of electrodes disposed by means of a separator in the presence of a lithium ion conductive electrolyte, wherein at least one of said electrodes comprises lithium iron oxide having a corrugated layer structure when examined by x-ray diffraction, the lithium iron oxide doped with at least one additional metal and produced by heating a mixture of lepidocrocite and a lithium compound at a temperature of 100 to 150.degree.
C., and after washing the reaction product with water, filtering off and drying, heat-treating the obtained product at a temperature of 100 to 250.degree.
C. 2.
A lithium battery comprising a pair of electrodes disposed by means of a separator in the presence of a lithium ion conductive electrolyte, wherein at least one of said electrodes comprises lithium iron oxide which has a corrugated layer crystal structure when examined by x-ray diffraction, which lithium iron oxide is represented by the formula (1): wherein M represents at least one element selected from the group consisting of cobalt, nickel, manganese and aluminum, x is more than 0 and less than 2, and y is 0.005 to 0.1, and which is produced by heating a mixture of lepidocrocite containing at least one element selected from the group consisting of cobalt, nickel, manganese and aluminum and a lithium compound at a temperature of 100 to 150.degree.
C., wherein the mixing ratio (Li/Fe) of lepidocrocite and the lithium compound is not less than 1.2.
The lithium battery according to claim 2 wherein M is aluminum.
The lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein said lithium iron oxide has an average particle diameter of 0.01 to 1.0 .mu.m.
A lithium battery according to claim 2, wherein said lithium iron oxide is produced after heating the mixture of lepidocrocite and the lithium compound, by washing the reaction product with water by suspending the reaction product particles in water of a temperature of not more than 30.degree.
C., filtering off, drying at a temperature of not more than 40.degree.
C., and heat-treating the obtained product at a temperature of 100 to 250.degree.
C.
Layered structure manganese dioxide for cathode material in lithium  rechargeable cell and process for producing the same
A layered structure manganese dioxide (MnO.sub.2) of which oxide lattices are in the pattern of pseudo-hexagonal close packing ( .
.
.
AABB .
.
. )
and has hexagonal P6.sub.3 /mmc space group or orthorhombic Cmcm space group.
The present invention also provides a process for producing said layered structure manganese dioxide (MnO.sub.2) which comprises heat treating a mixture of an alkali metal compound and a manganese compound at a high temperature.
During the process, bismuth compounds or lead compounds may be added in order to stabilize the layered crystal structure of MnO.sub.2, or lithium compounds may be added in order to improve the reversibility of charge and discharge.
The layered structure MnO.sub.2 is suitable for use as a cathode material in lithium rechargeable cells, since it does not transform into a spinel phase during charge and discharge cycling, thus having an excellent charging and discharging reversibility.
A process for producing a layered structure manganese dioxide MnO.sub.2, comprising the step of heating a dry powdery mixture of an alkali metal compound and a manganese compound at a temperature in the range of from 500 to 1500.degree.
C. to produce the layered structure manganese dioxide MnO.sub.2, wherein the alkali metal is one selected from the group consisting of potassium, rubidium and cesium; the molar ratio of alkali metal element to Mn is in the range of from 0.25:1 to 0.75:1; and the oxide arrangement of the layered structure manganese dioxide is a pseudo-hexagonal oxide packing pattern.
A process according to claim 1, wherein the alkali metal compound is a nitrate, a carbonate or a hydroxide of potassium, rubidium or cesium, and the manganese compound is MnO, Mn.sub.3 O.sub.4, Mn.sub.2 O.sub.3, a nitrate of manganese or a carbonate of manganese.
A process according to claim 1, wherein prior to heating, adding an additional material to the mixture, the additional material being selected from the group consisting of a lithium compound, a bismuth compound, a lead compound and a mixture thereof, and the additional material is present in an amount such that: the molar ratio of Li:Mn is 0.5:1 or less if the additional material includes the lithium compound, the molar ratio of Bi:Mn is 0.1:1 or less if the additional material includes the bismuth compound, and the molar ratio of Pb:Mn is 0.1:1 or less if the additional material includes the lead compound.
A process according to claim 3, wherein the lithium compound is LiOH, LiNO.sub.3 or Li.sub.2 CO.sub.3, the bismuth compound is Bi.sub.2 O.sub.3 or Bi(NO.sub.3).sub.3, and the lead compound is PbO or Pb(NO.sub.3).sub.2.
A process according to claim 3, wherein the mixture is heated to a temperature of from 700 to 1100.degree.
C. 6.
A process according to claim 3, wherein the molar ratio of alai metal element: Mn is in the range of from 0.3:1 to 0.6:1.
A process according to claim 3, wherein the layered structure manganese dioxide has a hexagonal P6.sub.3 /mmc space group or an orthorhombic Cmcm space group.
A process according to claim 1, wherein the mixture is heated to a temperature of from 700 to 1100.degree.
C. 9.
A process according to claim 1, wherein the molar ratio of alkali metal element: Mn is in the range of from 0.3:1 to 0.6:1.
A process according to claim 1, wherein the layered structure manganese dioxide has a hexagonal P6.sub.3 /mmc space group or an orthorhombic Cmcm space group.
A lithium rechargeable battery, comprising: a cathode active material produced by a process comprising the steps of: heating a dry powdery mixture of a compound of an alkali metal selected from the group of sodium, potassium, rubidium and cesium and a manganese compound at a temperature of from 500 to 1500.degree.
C.; and washing and drying the mixture to produce the layered structure manganese dioxide wherein an oxide arrangement of the layered structure manganese dioxide is a pseudo-hexagonal oxide packing pattern.
A lithium rechargeable battery according to claim 11, wherein in the process of producing the cathode: prior to heating, adding an additional material to the mixture, the additional material being selected front the group consisting of a lithium compound, a bismuth compound, a lead compound and a mixture thereof, and the additional material is present in an amount such that: the molar ratio of Li:Mn is 0.5:1 or less if the additional material includes the lithium compound, the molar ratio of Bi:Mn is 0.1:1 or less if the additional material includes the bismuth compound, and the molar ratio of Pb:Mn is 0.1:1 or less if the additional material includes the lead compound.
A layered structure manganese dioxide having: an oxide arrangement with a pseudo-hexagonal close packing pattern ( .
.
.
AABB .
.
.
); and a hexagonal P6.sub.3 /mmc space group or an orthorhombic Cmcm space group.
Electrodes for lithium ion batteries using polysilanes
A lithium ion battery electrode formed by the pyrolysis of a silane polymer followed by introducing lithium ions.
These electrodes can be used to form batteries with large capacities, low irreversible capacity, high density and good safety behavior.
A method of forming an electrode material for a lithium ion battery comprising: (A) pyrolyzing a composition comprising a polysilane to form a ceramic material; and (B) introducing lithium ions into the ceramic material to form an electrode material.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polysilane is cured prior to pyrolysis.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polysilane is pyrolyzed at a temperature in the range of 700 to 1400.degree.
C. at a rate of heating less than about 10.degree.
C./minute.
The method of claim 1 wherein the ceramic material is formed into a powder, the powder blended with a binder and a diluent to form a mixture and the mixture formed into the shape of an electrode before the lithium ions are introduced.
The method of claim 1 wherein pyrolysis of the polysilane produces a ceramic material containing at least 5 weight percent excess carbon.
The method of claim 1 wherein the polysilane has a char yield of greater than about 50 weight percent.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polysilane also contains a curing agent.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polysilane also contains a carbonaceous material.
The method of claim 1 wherein the composition comprising the polysilane also contains a filler.
The method of claim 1 wherein the polysilane is a copolymer with a polymer selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, siloxanes, silazanes, and organic polymers.
The method of claim 1 wherein the polysilane is blended with a polymer selected from the group consisting of silalkylenes, silarylenes, siloxanes, silazanes, and organic polymers.
The method of claim 1 wherein the silane is a sugar modified with a polysilane.
In a method of making a rechargeable lithium ion battery, the improvement comprising making an anode by a process comprising: (A) pyrolyzing a composition comprising a polysilane to form a ceramic material; and (B) introducing lithium ions into the ceramic material to form an anode.
Electric cells and gas sensors using alkali ion conductive glass ceramic
A solid electric cell includes a case, a negative electrode, a positive electrode and a solid electrolyte.
The negative electrode, positive electrode and solid electrolyte are disposed in the case in such a manner that the negative electrode opposes the positive electrode through the solid electrolyte.
The solid electrolyte is made of an alkali ion conductive glass-ceramic having ion conductivity no less than 10.sup.-3 S/cm at room temperature.
A gas sensor includes a case, a negative electrode, a positive electrode, a solid electrolyte and a layer for which an electromotive force corresponding to the concentration of the gas is produced between the two electrodes.
In the case, the negative electrode opposes the positive electrode through the solid electrolyte.
The solid electrolyte is made of an alkali ion conductive glass-ceramic having ion conductivity no less than 10.sup.-3 S/cm at room temperature.
A solid electric cell comprising a case, a negative electrode, a positive electrode and a solid electrolyte, the negative electrode, positive electrode and solid electrolyte being disposed in the case in such a manner that the negative electrode opposes the positive electrode through the solid electrolyte characterized in that the solid electrolyte is made of a lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic having a crystal phase grow from glasses by heat treating these glasses wherein said glasses have a composition range outside of the stoichiometry of the crystal, and said glass-ceramics being obtained by melting raw materials to a melt, casting the melt to a glass and subjecting the glass to heat treatment.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 1 wherein lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic having ion conductivity no less than 10.sup.-3 S/cm at room temperature.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 2 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic is poreless.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 1 wherein lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprising 38-40 mol % of P.sub.2 O.sub.5 and containing Li.sub.1+x (Al,Ga).sub.x Ti.sub.2-x4 (PO.sub.4).sub.3 (where 0<X<0.8) as a main crystal phase.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 4 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 6.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 5 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 7.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 5 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 8.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 1 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic containing Li.sub.1+X+Y M.sub.X Ti.sub.2-X Si.sub.Y P.sub.3-Y O.sub.12 where M is Al or Ga 0<X.ltoreq.0.4 and 0<Y.ltoreq.0.6), as a main crystal phase.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 8 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 10.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 9 wherein said lithium in conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 11.
A solid electric cell as defined in claim 9 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 12.
A gas sensor comprising a case, a negative electrode, a positive electrode, a solid electrolyte and a layer for which an electromotive force corresponding to the concentration of the gas is produced between the two electrodes, a lead connected to the negative electrode and a lead connected to the positive electrode, the negative electrode, positive electrode and solid electrolyte being disposed in the case in such a manner that the negative electrode opposes the positive electrode through the solid electrolyte characterized in that the solid electrode is made of a lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic having a crystal phase grow from glasses by heat treating these glasses wherein said glasses have a composition range outside of the stoichiometry of the crystal, and said glass-ceramics being obtained by melting raw materials to a melt, casting the melt to a glass and subjecting the glass to heat treatment.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 12 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic having ion conductivity no less than 10.sup.-3 S/cm at room temperature.
A carbon dioxide gas sensor as defined in claim 13 wherein said layer is a metal carbonate layer.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 13 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic is poreless.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 12 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprising 38-40 mol % of P.sub.2 O.sub.5 and containing Li.sub.1+x (Al,Ga).sub.x Ti.sub.2-x (PO.sub.4).sub.3, where 0<X<0.8, as a main crystal phase.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 16 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 18.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 17 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 19.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 17 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 20.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 12 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic containing Li.sub.1+X+Y M.sub.X Ti.sub.2-X Si.sub.Y P.sub.3-Y O.sub.12, where M is Al or Ga 0<X.ltoreq.0.4 and 0<Y.ltoreq.0.6 as a main crystal phase.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 20 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 22.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 21 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %: 23.
A gas sensor as defined in claim 21 wherein said lithium ion conductive glass-ceramic comprises in mol %:
Pre-graphitic carbonaceous insertion compounds and use as anodes in  rechargeable batteries
Carbonaceous insertion compounds and methods for preparation are described wherein the compounds comprise a highly disordered, impurity free, hard pre-graphitic carbonaceous host.
Carbonaceous insertion compounds can be prepared which have large reversible capacity for lithium yet low irreversible capacity and voltage hysteresis.
Such insertion compounds can be prepared by simple pyrolysis of suitable epoxy, phenolic resin, or carbohydrate precursors at an appropriate temperature.
These insertion compounds may be suitable for use as high capacity anodes in lithium ion batteries.
A carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: (a) a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host having a reversible capacity for lithium insertion, an irreversible capacity for lithium insertion, and a surface area accessible to a non-aqueous electrolyte wherein (i) the empirical parameter R for said carbonaceous insertion compound: (A) is, determined by X-ray diffraction using a diffractometer equipped with a copper target X-ray tube and a diffracted beam monochronometer, with the X-ray beam of said diffractometer being confined to the sample in the angular range from 10.degree.
to 35.degree.
in scattering angle, (B) is defined as the height of the centre of the {002} peak divided by the background level, and (C) is less than about 2.2; (ii) the H/C atomic ratio is less than about 0.1; and (iii) the electrolyte accessible surface area is sufficiently small such that the irreversible capacity is less than about a half that of the reversible capacity; (b) and alkali metal atoms reversibly inserted into the carbonaceous host in an amount greater than that which can be reversibly inserted into graphite.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein the alkali metal is lithium.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein the accessible surface area is sufficiently small such that the irreversible capacity is less than about a third that of the reversible capacity.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein the methylene blue absorption capacity of the carbonaceous host is less than about 4 micromoles per gram of host.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein the surface area of the carbonaceous host as determined by BET is less than about 300 m.sup.2 /gram.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein less than about 5% by weight of the carbonaceous host is lost after pyrolyzing at about 1000.degree.
C. under inert gas.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein the non-aqueous electrolyte comprises ethylene carbonate and diethyl carbonate.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is less than about 2.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 1 wherein R is less than about 1.5.
A carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: (a) a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host prepared by pyrolyzing an epoxy precursor, a phenolic resin precursor, a carbohydrate precursor or a carbohydrate containing precursor at a temperature above 800.degree.
C. and within a temperature range effective to produce an H/C atomic ratio less than about 0.1 and an empirical parameter R for said host, wherein R: (i) is determined by X-ray diffraction using a diffractometer equiped with a copper target X-ray tube and a diffractive beam monochronometer, with the X-ray beam of said diffractometer being confined to the sample in the angular range from 10.degree.
to 35.degree.
in scattering angle, (ii) is defined as the {002} peak height divided by the background level, and (iii) is less than about 2.2; and (b) alkali metal atoms reversibly inserted into the carbonaceous host in an amount greater than that which can be reversibly inserted in graphite.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 10 wherein said temperature range is effective to produce an H/C atomic ratio in the pre-graphitic carbonaceous host less than about 0.1.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 10 wherein the surface area of the carbonaceous host as determined by BET is less than about 300 m.sup.2 /gram.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 10 wherein the alkali metal is lithium.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 13 wherein the pre-graphitic carbonaceous host has a reversible capacity for lithium insertion, an irreversible capacity for lithium insertion, and a surface area accessible to a non-aqueous electrolyte.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 14 wherein said temperature range is effective to produce an accessible surface area sufficiently small such that the irreversible capacity of said insertion compound is less than about half that of the reversible capacity.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 10 wherein the pre-graphitic carbonaceous host is prepared by pyrolyzing an epoxy precursor comprising an epoxy novolac resin.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 16 wherein the epoxy precursor comprises a hardener in a range from zero to about 40% by weight.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 17 wherein the hardener is phthallic anhydride.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 18 wherein the epoxy precursor is cured at about 120.degree.
C. before pyrolysis.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 16 wherein the pyrolysis temperature is attained by ramping at from about 1.degree.
C./min to about 20.degree.
C./min.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 10 wherein the pre-graphitic carbonaceous host is prepared by pyrolyzing an epoxy precursor comprising a bisphenol A epoxy resin.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 21 wherein the pyrolysis temperature is attained by ramping at about 30.degree.
C./min.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 10 wherein the pre-graphitic carbonaceous host is prepared by pyrolyzing a phenolic resin precursor.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 23 wherein R is less than about 1.6.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 23 wherein the phenolic resin precursor is cured at about 150.degree.
C. before pyrolysis.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 23 wherein the pyrolysis temperature is maintained for about an hour.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 23 wherein the phenolic resin precursor is of the novolac type.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 23 wherein the phenolic resin precursor is of the resole type.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 28 wherein the phenolic resin precursor is pyrolyzed at a temperature in the range from about 900.degree.
C. to about 1100.degree.
C. 30.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 10 wherein the pre-graphitic carbonaceous host is prepared by pyrolyzing a carbohydrate or carbohydrate containing precursor.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 30 wherein the tap density of the carbonaceous host is greater than about 0.7 g/ml.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 30 wherein R is less than about 2.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 30 wherein the carbohydrate precursor is pyrolyzed at a temperature in the range from about 900.degree.
C. to about 1100.degree.
C. 34.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 33 wherein the pyrolysis temperature is maintained for about an hour.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 33 wherein the pyrolysis temperature is attained by ramping at a rate of about 25.degree.
C. per minute.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 30 wherein the carbohydrate precursor is a sugar.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 36 wherein the sugar is sucrose.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 30 wherein the carbohydrate precursor is a starch.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 30 wherein the carbohydrate precursor is a cellulose.
A carbonaceous insertion compound as claimed in claim 39 wherein the cellulose is selected from the group consisting of red oak, maple, walnut shell, filbert shell, almond shell, cotton and straw.
A carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host prepared by pyrolyzing an epoxy novolac resin having the formula: ##STR3## at a temperature above about 700.degree.
C. and below about 1100.degree.
C.; and lithium atoms reveiby inserted into the carbonaceous host in an amount greater than that which can be reversibly inserted into graphite.
A carbonaceous insertion compound comprising: a pre-graphitic carbonaceous host prepared by pyrolyzing a bisphenol A epoxy resin having the formula: ##STR4## at a temperature above about 800.degree.
C., and lithium atoms reversibly inserted into the carbonaceous host in an amount greater than that which can be reversibly inserted into graphite.
Electrolytes for lithium rechargeable cells
An electrolyte, such as for a lithium rechargeable cell, is described which contains a pyrazolium cation and may also contain a lithium salt.
The lithium salt may be at least one of LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, and LiTF.
The electrolyte, when used in an electrochemical cell, has a charge/discharge capacity and charging efficiency that is superior to the same properties of ionic liquid electrolytes without a pyrazolium cation.
Electrochemical cells are also described and contain an anode, a cathode, and the pyrazolium cation electrolyte.
An electrochemical cell comprising an electrolyte, said electrolyte comprising a non-hydrophobic pyrazolium cation-containing molten salt and at least one non-Lewis acid counter ion, wherein said counter ion comprises BF.sub.4.sup.-, PF.sub.6.sup.-, AsF.sub.6.sup.-, or CF.sub.3 SO.sub.3.sup.-, or a mixture thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte comprises a single salt consisting essentially of pyrazolium cations and anions (X).
The electrochemical cell of claim 3, wherein said electrolyte comprises a binary molten salt mixture comprising a mixture of single salts, at least one of which contains a pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4, wherein said binary molten salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4, wherein said second cation is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, and LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are each in the form of a salt and the two salts are different.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3, wherein said molten salt mixture comprises two different salts, each containing the same pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are both in the form of a salt and at least one of the two salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMPTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are both in the form of a salt and each of the salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMFPTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte comprises a ternary molten salt mixture comprising a mixture of three single salts, at least one of which contains said pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 10, wherein said ternary molten salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation, and a third cation which differs from said pyrazoline cation and said second cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 11, wherein at least one of said second and third cations is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, and LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 11, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and one of the anions of the three salts is different from the other two.
The electrochemical cell of claim 11, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and the anions of the three salts are the same.
The electrochemical cell of claim 10, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in die form of a salt, and at least one of the three salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMFPTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 13, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and at least one of the three salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMFPTF and another one of the three salts comprises LiBF.sub.4, LiPF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, or LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte further comprises at least one organic liquid.
The electrochemical cell of claim 17, wherein said organic liquid comprises propylene carbonate, diethyl carbonate, ethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate, acetonitrile, benzonitrile, dimethyl formamide, sulfolane, tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, dioxolane, methylformate, or combinations thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said pyrazolium cation is a pyrazolium salt which is distributed throughout a polymer matrix.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, further comprising an anode and a cathode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 20, wherein said anode comprises a lithium metal, a lithiated carbon and/or a lithium intercalated electrode material.
The electrochemical cell of claim 20, wherein said cathode comprises Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 ; Li.sub.x CoO.sub.2 ; Li.sub.x NiO.sub.2 ; modified Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 electrodes; Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2-x Cu.sub.x O.sub.4, wherein 0.1<x<0.5; LiM.sub.0.02 Mn.sub.1.98 O.sub.4 wherein M is selected from B, Cr, Fe, and Ti: a transition metal oxide; or an electrochemically active conductive polymer.
An electrochemical cell comprising an electrolyte, said electrolyte comprising a non-hydrophobic pyrazole or pyrazolium cation-containing molten salt, wherein said electrolyte exhibits an oxidation limit of greater than about 5V vs. lithium, and a thermal stability of up to at least about 300.degree.
C. 24.
The electrochemical cell of claim 23, wherein said electrolyte comprises a single salt consisting essentially of pyrazolium cation and anions (X).
The electrochemical cell of claim 23, wherein said electrolyte comprises a binary molten salt mixture comprising a mixture of single salts, at least one of which contains a pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 25, wherein said binary molten salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 26, wherein said second cation is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, and LiPF.sub.6.
The electrochemical cell of claim 26, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are each in the form of a salt and the two salts are different.
The electrochemical cell of claim 25, wherein said molten salt mixture comprises two different salts, each containing the same pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 26, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are both in the form of a salt and at least one of the two salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMPTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 26, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are both in the form of a salt and each of the salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMPTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 23, wherein said electrolyte comprises a ternary molten salt mixture comprising a mixture of three single salts, at least one of which contains said pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 32, wherein said ternary molten salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation, and a third cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation and said second cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 33, wherein at least one of said second and third cations is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, and LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 33, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second pyrazolium cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and one of the anions of the three salts is different from the other two.
The electrochemical cell of claim 33, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in to form of a salt, an the anions of the three salts are the same.
The electrochemical cell of claim 33, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and at least one of the three salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMFPTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 33, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and at least one of the three salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMFPTF and another one of the three salts comprises LiBF.sub.4, LiPF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, or LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 23, wherein said pyrazolium cation is a pyrazolium salt which is distributed throughout a polymer matrix.
The electrochemical cell of claim 23, further comprising an anode and a cathode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 40, wherein said anode comprises a lithium metal, a lithiated carbon and/or a lithium intercalated electrode material.
The electrochemical cell of claim 40, wherein said cathode comprises Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 ; Li.sub.x CoO.sub.2 ; Li.sub.x NiO.sub.2 ; modified Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 electrodes; Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2-x Cu.sub.x O.sub.4, wherein 0.1<x<0.5; LiM.sub.0.02 Mn.sub.1.98 O.sub.4 wherein M is selected from B, Cr, Fe, and Ti: a transition metal oxide; or an electrochemically active conductive polymer.
An electrochemical cell comprising an electrolyte, said electrolyte comprising a non-hydrophobic pyrazolium cation-containing molten salt, wherein said pyrazolium cation is in the form of a salt having the formula: ##STR4## wherein R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 represent independently an alkyl group comprising 1-12 carbon atoms, and R.sub.3, R.sub.4, and R.sub.5 represents independently H, F, CF.sub.3, or an alkyl group comprising from 1 to about 5 carbon atoms, and X.sup.- represents a counter anion selected from a non-Lewis acid counter anion.
The electrochemical cell of claim 43, wherein said electrolyte comprises a binary molten salt mixture comprising a mixture of single salts, at least one of which contains a pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 44, wherein said binary molten salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 45, wherein said second cation is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, and LiPF.sub.6.
The electrochemical cell of claim 45, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are each in the form of a salt and the two salts are different.
The electrochemical cell of claim 44, wherein said molten salt mixture comprises two different salts, each containing the same pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 45, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are both in the form of a salt and at least one of the two salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMPTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 43, wherein said electrolyte comprises a ternary molten salt mixture comprising a mixture of three single salts, at least one of which contains said pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 50, wherein said ternary molten salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation, and a third cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation and said second cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 51, wherein at least one of said second and third cations is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, and LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 51, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second pyrazolium cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and one of the anions of the three salts is different from the other two.
The electrochemical cell of claim 51, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and at least one of the three salts comprises DMPBF.sub.4, DMFPBF.sub.4, EMPBF.sub.4, EMFPBF.sub.4, EMPTF, or DMFPTF and another one of the three salts comprises LiBF.sub.4, LiPF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, or LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 43, wherein said counter anion is BF.sub.4.sup.-, PF.sub.6.sup.-, AsF.sub.6.sup.-, or CF.sub.3 SO.sub.3.sup.-, or a mixture thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 43, wherein said pyrazolium cation is a pyrazolium salt which is distributed throughout a polymer matrix.
The electrochemical cell of claim 43, further comprising an anode and a cathode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 57, wherein said anode comprises a lithium metal, a lithiated carbon and/or a lithium intercalated electrode material.
The electrochemical cell of claim 57, wherein said cathode comprises Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 ; Li.sub.x CoO.sub.2 ; Li.sub.x NiO.sub.2 ; modified Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 electrodes; Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2-x Cu.sub.x O.sub.4, wherein 0.1<x<0.5; LiM.sub.0.02 Mn.sub.1.98 O.sub.4 wherein M is selected from B, Cr, Fe, and Ti: a transition metal oxide; or an electrochemically active conductive polymer.
Lithium battery and method of producing positive electrode active material  therefor
In a method of producing a positive active material for a lithium battery, a compound represented by the chemical formula H.sub.x Li.sub.y MO.sub.2 in a solution containing lithium ions is chemically oxidized, where 0.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.2, 1<(x+y).ltoreq.2, and M is one or two kinds of transition metals selected from Co and Ni.
A method of producing a positive active material for a lithium battery, consisting essentially of the step of: chemically oxidizing without a calcination step in a solution containing lithium ions a compound represented by the chemical formula H.sub.x Li.sub.y MO.sub.2, where 0.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.2, 1<(x+y).ltoreq.2 and M is a transition metal selected from the group consisting of Co, Ni, and mixtures thereof.
A method of producing a positive active material for a lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein said compound is nickel hydroxide.
A method of producing a positive active material for lithium batteries according to claim 1, wherein said compound is nickel hydroxide containing nickel oxyhydroxide.
A method for producing a positive active material for a lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the cobalt content of said compound is in the range of 2 to 90 mol %, wherein the mol % is based on the amount of cobalt divided by the sum of the amount of nickel and the amount of cobalt.
A method for producing a positive active material for a lithium battery according to claim 4, wherein the cobalt content of said compound is in the range of 2 to 50 mol %, wherein the mol % is based on the amount of cobalt divided by the sum of the amount of nickel and the amount of cobalt.
A method of producing a positive active material for a lithium battery according to claim 5, wherein the cobalt content of said compound is in the range of 2 to 20 mol %, wherein the mol % is based on the amount of cobalt divided by the sum of the amount of nickel and the amount of cobalt.
A method of producing a positive active material for a lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein said solution containing lithium ions has lithium hydroxide and water as constituent elements.
A method of producing a positive active material for a lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein peroxodisulfate is used as an oxidizing agent in said oxidizing step.
A method of producing a positive active material for a lithium battery, consisting essentially of the steps of: preparing a compound represented by the chemical formula H.sub.x Li.sub.y MO.sub.2, where 0.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.2, 1<(x+y).ltoreq.2 and M is a transition metal selected from the group consisting of Co, Ni, and mixtures thereof; and chemically oxidizing said compound without a calcination step in a solution containing lithium ions at a temperature less than 100.degree.
C. 10.
A method of producing a positive active material for a lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein sodium hypochlorite is used as an oxidizing agent in said oxidizing step.
Battery operation for extended cycle life
The present invention provides a method for cycling a battery, containing lithium metal oxide, particularly lithium manganese oxide (LMO) active material, in a cell in a manner which reduces the extent to which loss of capacity occurs.
The present method of operation extends the cycle life of such battery.
A method of operating a lithium ion battery having a lithium manganese oxide cathode active material, which method comprises: (a) performing at least one initial conditioning charge and discharge cycle where the conditioning is essentially to the design voltage of the battery and discharge is to essentially full depth of discharge; (b) charging the conditioned battery of step (a) to essentially full charge; and then (c) discharging the charged battery of step (b) to greater than 90% and less than 100% of the full depth of discharge.
The method of claim 1 wherein steps (b) and (c) are repeated in sequence.
The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) is conducted to greater than 95% and less than 99% depth of discharge.
The method of claim 1 wherein step (b) is conducted to a design voltage in a range of about 4.0 to 4.5 volts.
The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) is conducted to a discharge voltage greater than about 3.4 volts, at a temperature of about 50.degree.
C. or more.
The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) is conducted to a discharge voltage greater than about 3.6 volts, at a temperature of about 60.degree.
C. or more.
The method of claim 1 wherein the charge of step (b) occurs at a charge rate of C/2.
The method of claim 1 wherein the discharge of step (c) occurs at a discharge rate of C/5.
The method of claim 1 wherein before step (a) the lithium manganese oxide is nominally Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x O.sub.4, O.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.20.
A method of operating a lithium ion battery having a lithium manganese oxide cathode active material and an intercalation carbonaceous anode active material, which method comprises: (a) performing at least one initial conditioning full charge and full discharge cycle, where full charge is to the design voltage of the battery and full discharge corresponds to 100% depth of discharge; (b) fully charging the conditioned battery of step (a); and (c) discharging the charged battery of step (b) to less than the full depth of discharge.
The method of claim 10 wherein before step (a) the lithium manganese oxide is nominally Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x O.sub.4, O.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.20.
The method of claim 10 wherein each discharged step (c) is conducted until the cell potential is reduced to between about 1% and 10% of the full charge.
A method of operating a lithium ion battery having a lithium metal oxide cathode active material, which method comprises: (a) performing at least one initial conditioning full charge and full discharge cycle, where full charge is to the design voltage of the battery and full discharge corresponds to 100% depth of discharge; (b) charging the conditioned battery of step (a) at a charge rate of C/2 to achieve up full charge; and (c) discharging the charged battery of step (b) at a discharge rate of C/5 to achieve up to the full depth of discharge.
The method of claim 13 wherein before step (a) the lithium metal oxide is nominally Li.sub.1+x Mn.sub.2-x O.sub.4, O.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.20.
The method of claim 13 wherein each discharged step (c) is conducted until the cell potential is reduced to between about 1% and 10% of the full charge.
The method of claim 13 wherein the lithium metal oxide is spinel lithium manganese oxide.
The method of claim 13 wherein step (c) is conducted at the stated discharge rate to less than the full depth of discharge.
Aqueous rechargeable battery
Rechargeable batteries based on the `rocking chair` principle and alkali or alkaline earth insertion compounds are disclosed that employ aqueous electrolytes.
Batteries of the invention can have energy densities comparable to conventional aqueous batteries.
Embodiments of the invention include aqueous lithium ion batteries.
A rechargeable battery comprising: (a) a cathode comprising a first insertion compound with inserted species A, the amount of inserted A increasing on discharge and decreasing on recharge of the battery, wherein A is a member of the group consisting of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals; (b) an anode comprising a second insertion compound with inserted species A, the amount of inserted A decreasing on discharge and increasing on recharge of the battery; and (c) an electrolyte comprising a salt of species A dissolved in an aqueous solvent mixture, in a concentration such that both first and second insertion compounds are kinetically stable therein over respctive ranges of inserted A.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 1 wherein the pH of the electrolyte is greater than 7.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 1 wherein A is lithium.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 3 wherein the first insertion compound is a lithium transition metal oxide.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 4 wherein the first insertion compound is a lithium manganese oxide.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 5 wherein the lithium manganese oxide is spinel Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4, wherein x is a number in the range from 0 to about 2.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 3 wherein the second insertion compound is a lithium transition metal oxide.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 7 wherein the second insertion compound is a lithium manganese oxide.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 8 wherein the lithium manganese oxide is spinel Li.sub.x Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4, wherein x is a number in the range from 0 to about 2.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 8 wherein the lithium manganese oxide is Li.sub..gamma.
MnO.sub.2 with a .gamma.-MnO.sub.2 structure, wherein y is a number in the range from 0 to about 1.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 7 wherein the second insertion compound is a lithium vanadium oxide.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 11 wherein the lithium vanadium oxide is Li.sub.z VO.sub.2 (B).sub.1 wherein z is a number in the range from 0 to about 0.5.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 1 wherein A is lithium and the salt of A is LiOH, LiCl, LiNO.sub.3, Li.sub.2 SO.sub.4, or Li(acetate).
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 2 wherein the electrolyte further comprises an additional hydroxide salt, the concentration of said additional hydroxide salt being less than the concentration of the salt of A.
A rechargeable battery as claimed in claim 14 wherein A is lithium, the salt of A is LiCl, LiNO.sub.3, Li.sub.2 SO.sub.4, or Li(acetate) and the additional hydroxide salt is LiOH.
A rechargeable aqueous electrolyte lithium ion battery comprising: (a) a battery case; (b) at least one set of electrochemical cell electrodes placed in said case, said set of electrodes including: (i) an LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4 cathode, wherein the Li is inserted in the Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4, the amount of inserted Li increasing on discharge and decreasing on recharge of the battery; and (ii) an anode selected from the group consisting of Li.sub.0.36 Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 with .gamma.Mn.sub.2 O.sub.4 structure, LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4 and Li.sub.z VO.sub.2 (B), wherein z is a number in the range from 0 to about 0.5, the amount of inserted Li decreasing on discharge and increasing on recharge of the battery; (c) a wettable microporous polypropylene film separator material disposed between said cathode and said anode; and (d) an aqueous electrolyte disposed within said case and surrounding and wetting said cathode, said anode and said separator, said aqueous electrolyte comprising a lithium salt selected from the group consisting of LiOH, LiCl, LiNO.sub.3, Li.sub.2 SO.sub.4 and Li(acetate).
Lithium secondary battery
In a lithium secondary battery comprising a chargeable and dischargeable positive electrode, a chargeable and dischargeable negative electrode and an electrolyte, wherein at least one of the positive electrode and the negative electrode comprises a lithium-containing halide having a spinel structure or spinel analogous structure, the lithium-containing halide having a spinel structure or spinel analogous structure having a high ion bonding property is dissolved into an electrolyte obtained by dissolving a salt into an organic solvent.
In the secondary battery of the present invention, since a lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte is used as an electrolyte, there can be obtained a chargeable and dischargeable lithium battery in which at least one of a positive electrode and a negative electrode comprises a lithium-containing halide having a spinel structure or a spinel analogous structure.
A lithium secondary battery comprising a chargeable and dischargeable positive electrode, a chargeable and dischargeable negative electrode and a lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte, wherein at least one of said positive electrode and said negative electrode comprises a lithium-containing halide having a spinel structure or a spinel analogous structure.
The lithium secondary battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein said lithium-containing halide is represented by the formula: Li.sub.2-2p-q Me.sub.1+p X.sub.4 where Me is at least one transition metal element selected from the group consisting of Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni and Cu, X is at least one halogen element selected from the group consisting of F, Cl, Br and I, and 0.ltoreq.p.ltoreq.0.5 and 0.ltoreq.p.ltoreq.2-2p.
The lithium secondary battery in accordance with claim 2, wherein said lithium-containing halide is represented by Li.sub.2 MeX.sub.4 where Me is Fe, Mn or Co. 4.
The lithium secondary battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein said lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte is a sulfide-based lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte.
The lithium secondary battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein said lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte is a sulfide-based lithium ion conductive inorganic solid electrolyte containing silicone and oxygen, an amount of said oxygen being 5 to 70 mol per 100 mol of silicon.
Organic solvents, electrolytes, and lithium ion cells with good low  temperature performance
Multi-component organic solvent systems, electrolytes and electrochemical cells characterized by good low temperature performance are provided.
In one embodiment, an improved organic solvent system contains a ternary mixture of ethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate.
In other embodiments, quaternary systems include a fourth component, i.e, an aliphatic ester, an asymmetric alkyl carbonate or a compound of the formula LiOX, where X is R, COOR, or COR, where R is alkyl or fluoroalkyl.
Electrolytes based on such organic solvent systems are also provided and contain therein a lithium salt of high ionic mobility, such as LiPF.sub.6.
Reversible electrochemical cells, particularly lithium ion cells, are constructed with the improved electrolytes, and preferably include a carbonaceous anode, an insertion type cathode, and an electrolyte interspersed therebetween.
An organic solvent system for an electrochemical cell, comprising: a 1:1:1 equal volume mixture of ethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, and diethyl carbonate.
An electrolyte comprising a lithium salt dispersed in an organic solvent system as recited in claim 1.
An electrolyte as recited in claim 2, wherein the lithium salt is LiPF.sub.6.
An electrolyte as recited in claim 2, wherein the salt is present in a concentration of from about 0.5M to 1.5M.
An electrochemical cell, comprising: an anode; a cathode; and interspersed therebetween an electrolyte comprising a lithium salt dispersed in an organic solvent system as recited in claim 2.
An organic solvent system for an electrochemical cell, comprising: a mixture of ethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, and a fluoroalkyl ester.
An organic solvent for an electrochemical cell, comprising: a mixture of ethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and a compound of the formula LiOX, where X is R, COOR, or COR, where R is perfluoroalkyl.
An organic solvent system for an electrochemical cell, comprising: a mixture of ethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, and a compound of the formula LiOR, where R is fluoroalkyl.
An organic solvent system as recited in claim 8, wherein R is perfluoroalkyl.
An organic solvent system as recited in claim 8, wherein the compound of the formula LiOR is present in a concentration of about 0.0001M to 0.1M.
Batteries using molten salt electrolyte
An electrolyte system suitable for a molten salt electrolyte battery is described where the electrolyte system is a molten nitrate compound, an organic compound containing dissolved lithium salts, or a 1-ethyl-3-methlyimidazolium salt with a melting temperature between approximately room temperature and approximately 250.degree.
C. With a compatible anode and cathode, the electrolyte system is utilized in a battery as a power source suitable for oil/gas borehole applications and in heat sensors.
An electrolyte system suitable for a molten salt electrolyte battery, the electrolyte system comprising a material with a melting temperature between approximately room temperature and approximately 250.degree.
C., said material selected from at least one molten nitrate compound having a melting point temperature of less than approximately 250.degree.
C., said molten nitrate compound consisting essentially of a mixture of lithium nitrate, potassium nitrate, and cesium nitrate, at least one organic compound containing dissolved lithium salts, and at least one 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium salt.
The electrolyte system of claim 1 wherein the molten nitrate compound is combined with a nitrate compound.
The electrolyte system of claim 1 wherein the organic compound containing dissolved lithium salts is an organic compound selected from propylene carbonate, ethylene carbonate, dimethyl sulfone and di-p-tolylsulfone containing at least one dissolved lithium salt selected from LiPF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, Li triflate salts and Li imide salts.
The electrolyte system of claim 1 wherein the 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium salt is selected from 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate, 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium triflate and 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium mesylate.
A battery for operation with a molten salt electrolyte comprising an anode, a cathode and an electrolyte system in accordance with claim 1.
The battery of claim 5 wherein said anode is made from a material selected from an lithium-aluminum alloy, an lithium-silicon alloy, a calcium alloy, a magnesium alloy, a zinc alloy, a lithium-boron alloys, and a molten lithium immobilized with a metal selected from nickel, copper and stainless steel Feltmetal.
The battery of claim 5 wherein the lithium-aluminum alloy has between approximately 20 w/w % from 25 w/w % lithium.
The battery of claim 5 wherein the lithium-silicon alloy has between approximately 40 w/w % to approximately 55 w/w % lithium.
The battery of claim 5 wherein the cathode is made from a material selected from Ag.sub.2 CrO.sub.4, V.sub.2 O.sub.5, LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.x Co.sub.1-x O.sub.2, CrO.sub.2, lithiated Cr oxides, MnO.sub.2, and lithiated manganese oxides.
Use of additives in electrolyte for electrochemical cells
The invention relates to the use of salt-based compounds as additives in electrolytes for improving the properties of electrochemical cells.
An electrolyte comprising a lithium containing conductive salt selected from the group consisting of methanides, triflates, and imides dissolved in an aprotic solvent, wherein the electrolyte further comprises at least one organic alkali metal salt as an additive, wherein the organic alkali metal salt is a lithium borate of the formula (I) in which m and p are 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4, where m+p=4 and R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are identical or different, are optionally bonded directly to one another by a single or double bond, and are each, individually or together, an aromatic or aliphatic carboxylic, dicarboxylic or sulfonic acid, or are each, individually or together, an aromatic ring selected from the group consisting of phenyl, naphthyl, anthracenyl and phenanthrenyl, which is optionally unsubstituted or mono- to tetrasubstituted by A or Hal, or are each, individually or together, a heterocyclic aromatic ring selected from the group consisting of pyridyl, pyrazyl and bipyridyl, which is optionally unsubstituted or mono- to trisubstituted by A or Hal, or are each, individually or together, an aromatic hydroxy acid selected from the group consisting of aromatic hydroxycarboxylic acids and aromatic hydroxysulfonic acids, which is optionally unsubstituted or mono- to tetrasubstituted by A or Hal, and Hal is F, Cl or Br and A is alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, which may be mono- to trihalogenated, wherein the organic alkali metal salt additive is present in concentrations of from 0.1 to 10% by weight based on the weight of conductive salt.
An electrolyte according to claim 1, wherein the organic alkali metal salt additive is selected from the group consisting of lithium bis[1,2-benzenediolato(2-)0,0']borate(1-), lithium bis[3-fluoro-1,2-benzenediolato(2-)0,0']borate(1-), lithium bis[2,3-naphthalenediolato(2-)0,0']borate(1-), lithium bis[2,2'-biphenyldiolato(2-)0,0']-borate(1-), lithium bis[2-olatobenzene-sulfonato(2-)0,0']borate(1-), lithium bis[salicylato(2-)0,0']borate(1-), lithium bis[5-fluoro-2-olatobenzenesulfonato(2-)0,0']borate, lithium bis[oxalato(2-)0,0']borate and lithium bis[molonato(2-)0,0']borate.
An electrochemical cell containing an electrolyte according to claim 1, further comprising an anode, a cathode, and a separator.
An electrochemical cell, battery or secondary lithium battery which comprises an electrolyte according to claim 1.
A secondary lithium battery comprising an electrolyte according to claim 1.
Positive electrode active material and non-aqueous electrolyte secondary  battery containing the same
The present invention discloses a non-aqueous electrolyte secondary battery comprising: a negative electrode containing metallic lithium or a substance at least capable of absorbing/desorbing lithium ion; a separator; a positive electrode; and an electrolyte, wherein the active material for the positive electrode comprises an oxide containing nickel element and manganese element in substantially the same atomic ratios.
The non-aqueous electrolyte secondary battery thus fabricated is low cost in construction and has a high capacity.
A positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery, comprising a crystalline particle of an oxide, said oxide containing nickel element and manganese element in substantially the same atomic ratios and having a rhombohedral crystal structure, wherein a c-axis attributed to a hexagonal system in the crystal structure of said crystalline particle is not shorter than 14.25 angstroms.
The positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein said oxide contains a lithium element.
The positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein said crystalline particle is in the shape of sphere.
The positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 1, comprising a mixture of a crystalline particle of said oxide having a particle size of 0.1 to 2 .mu.m, and a secondary particle of said crystalline particle having a particle size of 2 to 20 .mu.m.
The positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein a volume of a unit lattice in said crystalline particle decreases through oxidation.
The positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 1, wherein an error range between an atomic ratio of nickel element and an atomic ratio of manganese element is within not larger than 10 atomic %.
The positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 2, wherein said lithium element, said nickel element and said manganese element contained in said oxide satisfy the relation: 0.97.ltoreq.Li/(Ni+Mn).ltoreq.1.03.
A method for producing a positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery comprising the steps of: introducing an alkaline solution and an aqueous solution containing a nickel salt and a manganese salt simultaneously into a reactor, and coprecipitating said nickel and said manganese while passing an inert gas therethrough to obtain a nickel manganese hydroxide and/or a nickel manganese oxide; mixing said nickel manganese hydroxide and/or said nickel manganese oxide with a lithium compound to obtain a mixture; and baking said mixture at a temperature not lower than 950.degree.
C. to obtain a positive electrode material.
The method for producing a positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 8, wherein the temperature of said reactor is 30 to 50.degree.
C. 10.
The method for producing a positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 8, wherein each of said nickel salt and said manganese salt is sulfate.
The method for producing a positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 8, wherein said alkaline solution is a mixture of sodium hydroxide and ammonia water.
The method for producing a positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 8, wherein said lithium compound is lithium carbonate and/or lithium hydroxide.
The method for producing a positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery in accordance with claim 8, wherein said mixture after said baking is subsequently baked again at a temperature of 700 to 780.degree.
C. 14.
A method for producing a positive electrode active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery, comprising the steps of: dry mixing LiOH.H.sub.2 O, Ni(OH).sub.2 and MnOOH, each having a particle size of not larger than 0.3 .mu.m to obtain a mixture; and baking said mixture at a temperature of not lower than 950.degree.
C. to obtain a positive electrode active material.
A non-aqueous electrolyte secondary battery comprising: a negative electrode containing, as a negative electrode active material, metallic lithium and/or a substance at least capable of absorbing and desorbing lithium ion; a separator; a positive electrode containing a positive electrode active material in accordance with claim 1; and an electrolyte.
The positive electrode active material in accordance with claim 1, wherein the oxide further contains a transition metal.
The positive electrode active material in accordance with claim 1, wherein the oxide further contains at least one element selected from aluminum, magnesium, calcium and strontium.
Electrochemical cell having an electrode with a carbonate additive in the  electrode active mixture
An electrochemical cell of either a primary or a secondary chemistry, is described.
In either case, the cell has a negative electrode of lithium or of an anode material which is capable of intercalating and de-intercalating lithium coupled with a positive electrode of a cathode active material.
A carbonate compound is mixed with either the anode material or the cathode active material prior to contact with its current collector.
The resulting electrode couple is activated by a nonaqueous electrolyte.
The electrolyte flows into and throughout the electrodes causing the carbonate additive to dissolve in the electrolyte.
The carbonate solute is then able to contact the lithium to provide an electrically insulating and ionically conducting passivation layer thereon.
An electrochemical cell comprising a negative electrode, a positive electrode and an electrolyte, the improvement in the cell comprising: the negative electrode comprising an anode material contacted to an anode current collector and the positive electrode comprising a cathode active material contacted to a cathode current collector, wherein at least one of the anode material and the cathode active material is mixed with a carbonate additive prior to being contacted to the respective anode current collector and cathode current collector; and wherein the carbonate additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and has the general structure of X--O--CO--O--Y, wherein at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 and CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.1, R'.sub.2, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are the same or different, and at least R.sub.3 is an unsaturated substituent if X is CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and Y is CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 as either a primary or a secondary electrochemical cell.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the carbonate additive is selected from the group consisting of: a) X=Y=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 ; b) X.noteq.Y then X=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 ; c) X.noteq.Y then X=NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 and Y d) X=Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group; and e) X.noteq.Y then X=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group and Y=CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the carbonate additive is selected from the group consisting of di-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, benzyl-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, di(1-benzotriazolyl) carbonate, N-(benzyloxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, N-benzyloxycarbonyloxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide, N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, 2-(4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyloxyimino)-2-phenylacetonitrile, 1,5-bis(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)pentane, succinimidyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate, diallyl carbonate, allyl ethyl carbonate, 4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolan-2-one, dibenzyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the carbonate additive is present in at least one of the negative electrode and the positive electrode in a range of about 0.05% to about 5.0%, by weight.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrochemical cell is a primary cell and the negative electrode is comprised of lithium or a lithium-aluminum alloy.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 as a primary cell and the cathode active material is selected from the group consisting of silver vanadium oxide, copper silver vanadium oxide, manganese dioxide, cobalt oxide, nickel oxide, copper oxide, copper sulfide, iron sulfide, iron disulfide, titanium disulfide, copper vanadium oxide, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the positive electrode comprises from about 80 to about 99 weight percent of the cathode active material.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the positive electrode further comprises a binder material and a conductive additive.
The electrochemical cell of claim 9 wherein the binder material is a fluoro-resin powder.
The electrochemical cell of claim 9 wherein the conductive additive is selected from the group consisting of carbon, graphite powder, acetylene black, titanium powder, aluminum powder, nickel powder, stainless steel powder, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 as a secondary cell and the cathode active material is selected from the group consisting of oxides, sulfides, selenides, and tellurides of metals selected from the group consisting of vanadium, titanium, chromium, copper, molybdenum, niobium, iron, nickel, cobalt and manganese.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 as a secondary cell and the anode material is selected from the group consisting of coke, graphite, acetylene black, carbon black, glassy carbon, hairy carbon, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte is a nonaqueous electrolyte and there is dissolved therein a lithium salt.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the activated negative electrode and positive electrode provide the electrochemical cell dischargeable to deliver at least one current pulse of an electrical current of a greater amplitude than that of a prepulse current immediately prior to the current pulse.
The electrochemical cell of claim 15 wherein the current pulse is of about 15.0 mA/cm.sup.2 to about 35.0 mA/cm.sup.2.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 associated with an implantable medical device powered by the cell.
In combination with an implantable medical device requiring at least one current pulse for a medical device operating function, an electrochemical cell which is dischargeable to deliver the current pulse, the cell which comprises: a) a negative electrode; b) a positive electrode comprising a cathode active material contacted to a current collector, wherein the cathode active material is mixed with a carbonate additive prior to being contacted to the current collector, and wherein the carbonate additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and has the general structure of X--O--CO--O--Y, wherein at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 and CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.1, R'.sub.2, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are the same or different, and at least R.sub.3 is an unsaturated substituent if X is CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and Y is CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5 ; and c) a nonaqueous electrolyte activating the negative electrode and positive electrode, wherein the activated negative electrode and positive electrode provide the electrochemical cell dischargeable to deliver at least one current pulse for the medical device operating function, and wherein the current pulse is of an electrical current of a greater amplitude than that of a prepulse current immediately prior to the current pulse.
The combination of claim 18 wherein the carbonate additive is selected from the group consisting of: a) X=Y=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 ; b) X.noteq.Y then X=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 ; c) X.noteq.Y then X=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and Y=NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 ; d) X=Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group; and e) X.noteq.Y then X=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group and Y=CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and mixtures thereof.
The combination of claim 18 wherein the carbonate additive is selected from the group consisting of di-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, benzyl-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, di(1-benzotriazolyl) carbonate, N-(benzyloxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, N-benzyloxycarbonyloxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide, N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, 2-(4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyloxyimino)-2-phenylacetonitrile, 1,5-bis(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)pentane, succinimidyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate, diallyl carbonate, allyl ethyl carbonate, 4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolan-2-one, dibenzyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The combination of claim 18 wherein the carbonate additive is present in the positive electrode in a range of about 0.05% to about 5.0%, by weight.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) an anode comprising lithium; b) a cathode comprising silver vanadium oxide contacted to a current collector, wherein the silver vanadium oxide is mixed with a carbonate additive prior to being contacted to the current collector, and wherein the carbonate additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and has the general structure of X--O--CO--O--Y, wherein at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 and CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.1, R'.sub.2, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are the same or different, and at least R.sub.3 is an unsaturated substituent if X is CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and Y is CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5 ; and c) a liquid, nonaqueous electrolyte operatively associated with the anode and the cathode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22 wherein the carbonate additive is selected from the group consisting of: a) X=Y=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 ; b) X.noteq.Y then X=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 ; c) X.noteq.Y then X=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and Y=NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 ; d) X=Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group; and e) X.noteq.Y then X=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group and Y=CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22 wherein the carbonate additive is selected from the group consisting of di-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, benzyl-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, di(1-benzotriazolyl) carbonate, N-(benzyloxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, N-benzyloxycarbonyloxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide, N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, 2-(4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyloxyimino)-2-phenylacetonitrile, 1,5-bis(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)pentane, succinimidyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate, diallyl carbonate, allyl ethyl carbonate, 4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolan-2-one, dibenzyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22 wherein the nonaqueous electrolyte comprises a first solvent selected from the group consisting diisopropylether, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, 1,2-diethoxyethane, 1-ethoxy, 2-methoxyethane, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dipropyl carbonate, ethylmethyl carbonate, methylpropyl carbonate, ethylpropyl carbonate, methyl acetate, tetrahydrofuran, diglyme, triglyme, tetraglyme, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22 wherein the nonaqueous electrolyte comprises a second solvent selected from the group consisting of propylene carbonate, ethylene carbonate, butylene carbonate, .gamma.-valerolactone, .gamma.-butyrolactone, N-methyl-pyrrolidinone, dimethyl sulfoxide, acetonitrile, dimethyl formamide, dimethyl acetamide, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22 wherein the electrolyte is selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiNO.sub.3, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22 wherein the silver vanadium oxide is of the general formula Ag.sub.x V.sub.2 O.sub.y, and wherein the silver vanadium oxide is selected from the group consisting of .beta.-phase silver vanadium oxide that has in the general formula x=0.35 and y=5.18, .gamma.-phase silver vanadium oxide that has in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4, .epsilon.-phase silver vanadium oxide that has in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5, and mixtures thereof.
A method for providing an electrochemical cell, comprising the steps of: a) providing a negative electrode of an anode material contacted to an anode current collector; b) providing a positive electrode comprising a cathode active material contacted to a cathode current collector, wherein at least one of the anode material and the cathode active material is mixed with a carbonate additive prior to being contacted to the respective anode current collector and cathode current collector, the carbonate additive being either linear or cyclic and including covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and having the general structure of X--O--CO--O--Y, wherein at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 and CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.1, R'.sub.2, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are the same or different, and at least R.sub.3 is an unsaturated substituent if X is CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and Y is CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5 ; and c) activating the electrochemical cell with an electrolyte operatively associated with the negative electrode and the positive electrode.
The method of claim 29 including selecting the carbonate additive from the group consisting of: a) X=Y=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 ; b) X.noteq.Y then X=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 ; c) X.noteq.Y then X=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and Y=NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 ; d) X=Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group; and e) X.noteq.Y then X=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group and Y=CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 29 including selecting the carbonate additive from the group consisting of di-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, benzyl-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, di(1-benzotriazolyl) carbonate, N-(benzyloxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, N-benzyloxycarbonyloxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide, N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, 2-(4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyloxyimino)-2-phenylacetonitrile, 1,5-bis(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)pentane, succinimidyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate, diallyl carbonate, allyl ethyl carbonate, 4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolan-2-one, dibenzyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 29 including providing the carbonate additive present in at least one of the negative electrode and the positive electrode in a range of about 0.05% to about 5.0%, by weight.
The method of claim 29 including providing the nonaqueous electrolyte of a first solvent selected from the group consisting of an ester, an ether, dialkyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof, and a second solvent selected from the group consisting of a cyclic carbonate, a cyclic ester, a cyclic amide, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 29 including providing the cell as either a primary or a secondary cell.
The method of claim 29 wherein the electrochemical cell is a primary cell and selecting the cathode active material from the group consisting of silver vanadium oxide, copper silver vanadium oxide, manganese dioxide, cobalt oxide, nickel oxide, fluorinated carbon, copper oxide, copper sulfide, iron sulfide, iron disulfide, titanium disulfide, copper vanadium oxide, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 29 wherein the electrochemical cell is a primary cell and providing the negative electrode of an anode active material comprised of lithium or a lithium-aluminum alloy.
The method of claim 29 including providing the positive electrode comprising from about 80 to about 99 weight percent of the cathode active material.
The method of claim 29 including providing the positive electrode further comprising a binder material and a conductive additive.
The method of claim 38 wherein the binder material is a fluoro-resin powder.
The method of claim 38 including selecting the conductive additive from the group consisting of carbon, graphite powder, acetylene black, titanium powder, aluminum powder, nickel powder, stainless steel powder, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 29 including discharging the cell to deliver at least one current pulse of an electrical current of a greater amplitude than that of a prepulse current immediately prior to the current pulse.
The method of claim 29 including discharging the cell to deliver at least one current pulse of about 15.0 mA/cm.sup.2 to about 35.0 mA/cm.sup.2.
The method of claim 29 including providing the electrochemical cell as a secondary cell and selecting the cathode active material from the group consisting of oxides, sulfides, selenides, and tellurides of metals selected from the group consisting of vanadium, titanium, chromium, copper, molybdenum, niobium, iron, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 29 including providing the electrochemical cell as a secondary cell and selecting the anode material from the group consisting of coke, graphite, acetylene black, carbon black, glassy carbon, hairy carbon, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 29 including powering an implantable medical device with the electrochemical cell.
A method for providing an electrochemical cell, comprising the steps of: a) providing a negative electrode of lithium; b) mixing silver vanadium oxide with a carbonate additive to provide a positive electrode active mixture, the carbonate additive being either linear or cyclic and including covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and having the general structure of X--O--CO--O--Y, wherein at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 and CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.1, R'.sub.2, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are the same or different, and at least R.sub.3 is an unsaturated substituent if X is CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and Y is CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5 ; c) contacting the positive electrode active mixture to a current collector to provide a positive electrode; and d) activating the negative electrode and the positive electrode with a nonaqueous electrolyte.
The method of claim 46 including selecting the carbonate additive from the group consisting of: a) X=Y-NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 ; b) X.noteq.Y then X=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 ; c) X.noteq.Y then X=NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and Y=NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 d) X=Y=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group; and e) X.noteq.Y then X=CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, R.sub.3 is an unsaturated group and Y=CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 46 including selecting the carbonate additive from the group consisting of di-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, benzyl-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, di(1-benzotriazolyl) carbonate, N-(benzyloxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, N-benzyloxycarbonyloxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide, N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, 2-(4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyloxyimino)-2-phenylacetonitrile, 1,5-bis(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)pentane, succinimidyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate, diallyl carbonate, allyl ethyl carbonate, 4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolan-2-one, dibenzyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 46 wherein the carbonate additive is present in the positive electrode active mixture in a range of about 0.05% to about 5.0% by weight.
A composition which comprises an electrode material in admixture with a carbonate additive, wherein the carbonate additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and has the general structure of X--O--CO--O--Y, wherein at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2 and CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5, and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2 and CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5, and wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.1, R'.sub.2, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are the same or different, and at least R.sub.3 is an unsaturated substituent if X is CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and Y is CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5.
An electrode which comprises a composition according to claim 50.
A secondary electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a casing; b) a negative electrode comprising an anode material capable of intercalating and de-intercalating an alkali metal and being contacted to an anode current collector; c) a positive electrode comprising a cathode active material capable of intercalating and de-intercalating the alkali metal and being contacted to a cathode current collector; d) a separator provided intermediate the negative electrode and the positive electrode electrically associated with each other in an electrode assembly; e) an electrolyte activating the electrode assembly housed inside the casing; and f) wherein the anode material is mixed with a carbonate additive prior to being contacted to the anode current collector and wherein the carbonate additive is present in the negative electrode upon the electrolyte being provided in the casing to activate the electrode assembly.
Application of .gamma.-SVO and mixture of .gamma.-SVO/.epsilon.-SVO in high  rate electrochemical lithium cells containing SVO/CFx/SVO sandwich  cathodes
Lithium electrochemical cells having a sandwich cathode electrode of SVO/CF.sub.x /SVO active materials are described.
Such a design improves the service life of defibrillator electrochemical cells.
A preferred formulation uses .gamma.-SVO/CF.sub.x /.gamma.-SVO or (.gamma.+.epsilon.
)-SVO/CF.sub.x /(.gamma.+.epsilon.
)-SVO sandwiched cathode electrodes.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) an anode of an alkali metal; b) a cathode of a configuration: first SVO/current collector/CF.sub.x /current collector/second SVO, wherein the first and second SVO materials are of the general formula Ag.sub.x V.sub.2 O.sub.y with 0.80.ltoreq.x<1.0 and 5.4.ltoreq.y<5.5; and c) a nonaqueous electrolyte activating the anode and the cathode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the first and second SVO materials are .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the first and second SVO materials are a mixture of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4 and .epsilon.-SVO having in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the first and second SVO materials comprise 45% mole of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4 and 55% mole of .epsilon.-SVO having in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the current collectors are selected from the group consisting of stainless steel, titanium, tantalum, platinum, gold, aluminum, cobalt nickel alloys, nickel-containing alloys, highly alloyed ferritic stainless steel containing molybdenum and chromium, and nickel-, chromium-, and molybdenum-containing alloys.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the current collectors are titanium having a coating selected from the group consisting of graphite/carbon material, iridium, iridium oxide and platinum provided thereon.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the anode is lithium, the first and second SVO materials are a mixture of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4 and .epsilon.-SVO having in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5, and the current collectors are of titanium.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the anode is comprised of lithium.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the SVO materials and the CF.sub.x material comprises from about 80 weight percent to about 99 weight percent of the respective active materials.
The electrochemical cell of claim 9 wherein at least one of the SVO materials and the CF.sub.x material further comprises a binder material and a conductive additive.
The electrochemical cell of claim 10 wherein the binder material is a fluoro-resin powder.
The electrochemical cell of claim 10 wherein the conductive additive is selected from the group consisting of carbon, graphite powder, acetylene black, nickel powder, aluminum powder, titanium powder, stainless steel powder, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein at least one of the SVO materials and the CF.sub.x material comprises about 0 to 3 weight percent of a conductive additive, about 1 to 5 weight percent of a fluoro-resin powder and about 94 to 99 weight percent of the respective active materials.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte has a first solvent selected from an ester, a linear ether, a cyclic ether, a dialkyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof, and a second solvent selected from a cyclic carbonate, a cyclic ester, a cyclic amide, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 14 wherein the first solvent is selected from the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran (THF), methyl acetate (MA), diglyme, trigylme, tetragylme, dimethyl carbonate (DMC), 1,2-dimethoxyethane (DME), 1,2-diethoxyethane (DEE), 1-ethoxy,2-methoxyethane (EME), ethyl methyl carbonate, methyl propyl carbonate, ethyl propyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dipropyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof, and the second solvent is selected from the group consisting of propylene carbonate (PC), ethylene carbonate (EC), butylene carbonate, acetonitrile, dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl, formamide, dimethyl acetamide, .gamma.-valerolactone, .gamma.-butyrolactone (GBL), N-methyl-pyrrolidinone (NMP), and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte includes a lithium salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.6 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte is 0.8M to 1.5M LiAsF.sub.6 or LiPF.sub.6 dissolved in a 50:50 mixture, by volume, of propylene carbonate and 1,2-dimethoxyethane.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) an anode of lithium; b) a cathode of a configuration: first SVO/titanium current collector/CF.sub.x /titanium current collector/second SVO, wherein the first and second SVO materials are of the general formula Ag.sub.x V.sub.2 O.sub.y with 0.80.ltoreq.x<1.0 and 5.4.ltoreq.y<5.5; and c) a nonaqueous electrolyte.
Silver vanadium oxide cathode material for high discharge rate lithium  cells
A method for synthesizing a mixture of .epsilon.-SVO (Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11) and .gamma.-SVO (Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8) by a two-step raw materials mixing process, is described.
.gamma.-SVO is the preferred SVO in terms of electrochemical performance, such as reduced Rdc growth and reduced or eliminated voltage delay.
On the other hand, .epsilon.-SVO has slightly higher volumetric capacity than y-SVO.
AgVO.sub.3 is an undesirable component in Li/SVO cell cathodes because it causes increased Rdc growth and larger voltage delay in comparison to the pure product materials.
According to the present invention, a mixture of .epsilon.-SVO (0-100%)+.gamma.-SVO (100-0%) as a cathode active material in lithium cells is preferred.
An electrochemical cell comprising an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte operatively associated with the anode and the cathode, the improvement in the cell comprising: the cathode of a cathode active material comprising a mixture of a first cathode active material and a second cathode active material, wherein the first cathode active material is a reaction product of at least a first silver-containing material mixed with at least a first vanadium-containing material in a stoichiometric reaction ratio of Ag:V of substantially 1:2 to provide .epsilon.-silver vanadium oxide (.epsilon.-SVO) having an empirical formula of (Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11) and wherein the second cathode active material is a reaction product of at least a second silver-containing material mixed with at least a second vanadium-containing material in a stoichiometric reaction ratio of Ag:V of substantially 0.8:2 to provide .gamma.-silver vanadium oxide (.gamma.-SVO) having an empirical formula of (Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8) and wherein the .epsilon.-SVO and the .gamma.-SVO are then mixed together to provide the cathode active material having a stoichiometric formula Ag.sub.x V.sub.4 O.sub.y with 1.69<x<2.0 and 10.8<y<11.0 and wherein the cathode active material is substantially devoid of unreacted starting materials.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the cathode active material is a mixture of about 55% .epsilon.-SVO and about 45% .gamma.-SVO, by weight.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the first and second silver-containing materials are selected from the group consisting of Ag, AgI, AgO, Ag.sub.2 O, AgNO.sub.3, AgNO.sub.2, AgCO.sub.3, AgVO.sub.3, Ag(CH.sub.3 CO.sub.2, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the first and second vanadium-containing materials are selected from the group consisting of AgVO.sub.3, V.sub.2 O.sub.5, V.sub.2 O.sub.4, V.sub.2 O.sub.3, V.sub.3 O.sub.7, V.sub.4 O.sub.9, V.sub.6 O.sub.13, NH.sub.4 VO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the .epsilon.-SVO (Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11) is characterized as having been prepared from AgNO.sub.3 and V.sub.2 O.sub.5 mixed in a stoichiometric ratio of Ag:V of 1:2 and heated to a final temperature of about 500.degree.
C. 6.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the .gamma.-SVO (Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8) is characterized as having been prepared from AgNO.sub.3 and V.sub.2 O.sub.5 mixed in a stoichiometric ratio of Ag:V of 1.6:4 and heated to a final temperature of about 500.degree.
C. 7.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the cell is dischargeable to deliver a current pulse of about 15.0 mA/cm.sup.2 to 30.0 mA/cm.sup.2.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the anode comprises lithium.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte is a nonaqueous liquid electrolyte.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte is LiAsF.sub.6 in a 50:50, by volume, mixture of propylene carbonate and dimethoxyethane.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the first and second silver-containing materials are the same or different and wherein the first and second vanadium-containing materials are the same or different.
A method for providing a cathode active material, comprising the steps of: a) reacting at least a first silver-containing material mixed with at least a first vanadium-containing material in a stoichiometric reaction ratio of Ag:V of substantially 1:2 thereby providing a first cathode active material as .epsilon.-silver vanadium oxide (.epsilon.-SVO) having an empirical formula of (Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11); b) reacting at least a second silver-containing material mixed with at least a second vanadium-containing material in a stoichiometric reaction ratio of Ag:V of substantially 0.8:2 thereby providing a second cathode active material as .gamma.-silver vanadium oxide (.gamma.-SVO) having an empirical formula of (Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8); and c) mixing the .epsilon.-SVO with the .gamma.-SVO to provide the cathode active material.
The method of claim 12 wherein the cathode active material is of about 55% .epsilon.-SVO (Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11) and about 45% .gamma.-SVO (Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8), by weight.
The method of claim 12 including selecting the first and second silver-containing materials from the group consisting of Ag, AgI, AgO, Ag.sub.2 O, AgNO.sub.3, AgNO.sub.2, AgCO.sub.3, AgVO.sub.3, Ag(CH.sub.3 CO.sub.2), and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 12 including selecting the first and second vanadium-containing materials from the group consisting of AgVO.sub.3, V.sub.2 O.sub.5, V.sub.2 O.sub.4, V.sub.2 O.sub.3, V.sub.3 O.sub.7, V.sub.4 O.sub.9, V.sub.6 O.sub.13, NH.sub.4 VO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 12 including preparing the .epsilon.-SVO (Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11) from AgNO.sub.3 and V.sub.2 O.sub.5 mixed in a stoichiometric ratio of Ag:V of 1:2 and heating the mixture to a temperature of about 500.degree.
C. 17.
The method of claim 16 including heating the mixture in a stepwise process interrupted with periodic mixing.
The method of claim 16 including heating the mixture at about 500.degree.
C. for about 72 hours.
The method of claim 12 including preparing the .gamma.-SVO (Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8) from AgNO.sub.3 and V.sub.2 O.sub.5 mixed in a stoichiometric ratio of AgV of 1:6:4 and heating the mixture to a temperature of about 500.degree.
C. 20.
The method of claim 19 including heating the mixture at about 500.degree.
C. for about 24 hours.
The method of claim 12 wherein the first and second silver-containing materials are the same or different and wherein the first and second vanadium-containing materials are the same or different.
A method for providing a cathode active material, comprising the steps of: a) providing at least one silver-containing material and at least one vanadium-containing material in a first mixture and reacting the first mixture to provide a first cathode active material substantially devoid of un-reacted starting materials; and b) mixing the first cathode active material with a second vanadium-containing material to provide a second mixture and reacting the second mixture to provide the cathode active material.
The method of claim 22 including selecting the silver-containing material from the group consisting of Ag, AgI, AgO, Ag.sub.2 O, AgNO.sub.3, AgNO.sub.2, AgCO.sub.3, AgVO.sub.3, Ag(CH.sub.3 CO.sub.2), and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 22 including selecting the vanadium-containing material from the group consisting of AgVO.sub.3, V.sub.2 O.sub.5, V.sub.2 O.sub.4, V.sub.2 O.sub.3, V.sub.3 O.sub.7, V.sub.4 O.sub.9, V.sub.6 O.sub.13, NH.sub.4 VO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 22 including heating the first mixture to a temperature of at least about 300.degree.
C. 26.
The method of claim 22 wherein the first cathode active material has a stoichiometric formula of Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11.
The method of claim 22 including heating the second mixture to a temperature of at least about 450.degree.
C. 28.
The method of claim 22 wherein the cathode active material is a mixture of about 55% .epsilon.-SVO (Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11) and about 45% .gamma.-SVO (Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8), by weight.
An electrochemical cell comprising an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte operatively associated with the anode and the cathode, the improvement comprising: the cathode comprising a cathode active material as a reaction product of at least a first silver-containing material and at least a first vanadium-containing material as starting materials characterized as having been reacted to provide a first silver vanadium oxide, and wherein the first silver vanadium oxide is characterized as having been reacted with at least a second vanadium-containing material to provide a second silver vanadium oxide on a surface of the first silver vanadium oxide.
The electrochemical cell of claim 29 wherein the first silver vanadium oxide is selected from the group consisting of Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11 and Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8.
The electrochemical cell of claim 29 wherein the second silver vanadium oxide is selected form the group consisting of Ag.sub.0.7 V.sub.4 O.sub.5.35 and Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8.
The electrochemical cell of claim 29 wherein the cathode active material has Ag.sub.0.7 V.sub.4 O.sub.5.35 as the second silver vanadium oxide formed on an exposed surface of Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11 or Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8 as the first silver vanadium oxide.
The electrochemical cell of claim 29 wherein the cathode active material has Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8 as the second silver vanadium oxide formed on an exposed surface of Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11 as the first silver vanadium oxide.
The electrochemical cell of claim 29, wherein the first and second vanadium-containing materials are the same or different.
The electrochemical cell of claim 34 wherein the first silver vanadium oxide has an empirical formula of Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11 and the second silver vanadium oxide has an empirical formula of either Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8 or Ag.sub.0.7 V.sub.4 O.sub.5.35.
An electrochemical cell comprising an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte operatively associated with the anode and the cathode, the improvement in the cell comprising: the cathode comprising a cathode active material as a reaction product of at least a first silver-containing material mixed with at least a first vanadium-containing material in a stoichiometric reaction ratio of Ag:V of substantially 1:2 to provide a first silver vanadium oxide and wherein the first silver vanadium oxide is reacted with at least a second vanadium-containing material to provide a second silver vanadium oxide of a stoichiometrically reduced silver and oxygen content in comparison to the first silver vanadium oxide, wherein the cathode active material has a stoichiometric formula Ag.sub.x V.sub.4 O.sub.y with 1.6.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2.0 and 10.8.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.11.0.
The electrochemical cell of claim 36 wherein the cathode active material is characterized as having been prepared from a decomposable silver salt and a first vanadium oxide reacted in a decomposition synthesis to provide the first silver vanadium oxide having an empirical formula of Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11, and wherein the first silver vanadium oxide is characterized as having been reacted with a second vanadium oxide heated to a temperature of about 450.degree.
C. 38.
The electrochemical cell of claim 36 wherein the cathode active material has an empirical formula of Ag.sub.1.82 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.91.
The electrochemical cell of claim 36, wherein the cathode active material is a mixture of about 55% .epsilon.-SVO (Ag.sub.2 V.sub.4 O.sub.11) as the first silver vanadium oxide and about 45% .gamma.-SVO (Ag.sub.1.6 V.sub.4 O.sub.10.8) as the second silver vanadium oxide, by weight.
Electrolytes with strong oxidizing additives for lithium/sulfur batteries
Disclosed are oxidizer-treated lithium electrodes, battery cells containing such oxidizer-treated lithium electrodes, battery cell electrolytes containing oxidizing additives, and methods of treating lithium electrodes with oxidizing agents and battery cells containing such oxidizer-treated lithium electrodes.
Battery cells containing SO.sub.2 as an electrolyte additive in accordance with the present invention exhibit higher discharge capacities after cell storage over cells not containing SO.sub.2.
Pre-treating the lithium electrode with SO.sub.2 gas prior to battery assembly prevented cell polarization.
Moreover, the SO.sub.2 treatment does not negatively impact sulfur utilization and improves the lithium's electrochemical function as the negative electrode in the battery cell.
A battery cell electrolyte, comprising: a) a main solvent of an electrolyte solvent mixture, having the chemical formula R.sub.1 (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n R.sub.2, where n ranges between 1 and 10, R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 are different or identical groups selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxy, substituted alkyl, and substituted alkoxy groups; and b) an oxidizing agent additive comprising no more than about 49% by weight of the electrolyte solvent mixture, oxidizing agent additive being selected from the group consisting of a halogen, an interhalogen, and an oxychloride and combinations thereof.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the halogen is selected from the group consisting of Cl.sub.2, Br.sub.2 and I.sub.2.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the oxychloride is selected from the group consisting of SO.sub.2 Cl.sub.2 and SOCl.sub.2.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the interhalogen is selected from the group consisting of iodine monochloride (ICl), iodine trichloride (ICl.sub.3) and iodine monobromide (I.sub.2 Br.sub.2).
The electrolyte of claim 1, further comprising a dioxolane as a co-solvent.
The electrolyte of claim 5, wherein the dioxolane co-solvent comprises less than about 20% by weight of the electrolyte solvent mixture.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said main solvent is a linear polyether.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said main solvent is chosen from the glyme family including monoglyme diglyme, triglyme, and tetraglyme.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said main solvent is dimethoxyetane.
The electrolyte of claim 1, further comprising a second co-solvent having a donor number of at least about 13.
The electrolyte of claim 10, wherein said second co-solvent is at least one of hexamethylphosphoramide, pyridine, N,N-diethylacetamide, N,N-diethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetramethylurea, N,N-dimethylacetamide, N,N-dimethylformamide, tributylphosphate, trimetylphosphate N,N,N'N'-tetraethylsulfamide, tetramethylenediamine, tetramethylpropylenediamine, and pentamethyldiethylenetriamine.
The electrolyte of claim 1, further comprising an electrolyte salt.
The electrolyte of claim 12, wherein said electrolyte salt is at least one of LiN(C.sub.2 F.sub.5 SO.sub.2).sub.2, LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiClO.sub.4, LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte is in a liquid state.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte is in a gel state.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte is in a solid state.
A battery cell comprising: a) a negative lithium electrode; b) a positive electrode comprising an electrochemical active material; c) an electrolyte including a i) a main solvent of an electrolyte solvent mixture, having the chemical formula R.sub.1 (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n R.sub.2, where n ranges between 1 and 10, R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 are different or identical groups selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxy, substituted alkyl and substituted alkoxy groups; and ii) an oxidizing agent additive comprising no more than about 49% by weight of the electrolyte solvent mixture, the oxidizing agent additive being selected from the group consisting of a halogen an interhalogen.
and an oxychloride and combinations thereof.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said electrochemically active material comprises sulfur in the form of at least one of elemental sulfur, a metal sulfide, a metal polysulfide, an organosulfur material, and combinations thereof, wherein said metal is selected from the group consisting of alkali metals, alkaline earth metals, and mixtures of alkali and alkaline earth metals.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said electrochemically active material comprises Li.sub.2 Sg.
The battery cell of claim 17, further comprising a first dioxolane co-solvent, comprising no more than 20% by weight of the electrolyte solvent mixture.
The battery cell of claim 17, further comprising a second co-solvent having a donor number of at least about 13.
The battery cell of claim 21, wherein said second co-solvent is at least one of hexamethylphosphoramide, pyridine, N,N-diethylacetamide, N,N-diethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetramethylurea, N,N-dimethylacetamide, N,N-dimethylformamide, tributylphosphate, trimethylphosphate N,N,N',N'N-tetraethylsulfitmide, tetramethylenediamine, tetramethylpropylenediamine, and pentamethyldiethylenetriamine.
The battery cell of claim 17, further comprising an electrolyte salt.
The battery cell of claim 23, wherein said electrolyte salt is at least one of LiN(C.sub.2 F.sub.5 SO.sub.2).sub.2, LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiClO.sub.4, LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said electrolyte is in a liquid state.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said electrolyte is in a gel state.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said electrolyte is in a solid state.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said electrolyte is a catholyte comprising a dissolved lithium polysulfide.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein the halogen is selected from the group consisting of Cl.sub.2, Br.sub.2 and I.sub.2.
The batery cell of claim 17, wherein the oxychloride is selected from the group consisting of SO.sub.2 Cl.sub.2 and SOCl.sub.2.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein the interhalogen is selected from the group consisting of iodine monochloride (ICl), iodine trichloride (ICl.sub.3) and iodine monobromide (I.sub.2 Br.sub.2).
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said lithium negative electrode comprises at lent one material selected from the group consisting of lithium metal, a lithium alloy, and a lithium insertion compound.
The battery cell of claim 17, further comprising a dioxolane as an electrolyte co-solvent.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein the dioxolane co-solvent comprises less than about 20% by weight of the electrolyte solvent mixture.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said solvent is a linear polyether.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said main solvent is chosen from the glyme family including monoglyme, diglyme, triglyme, and tetraglyme.
The battery cell of claim 17, wherein said main solvent is dimethoxyethane.
A battery cell electrolyte, consisting essentially of: a) a main solvent of an electrolyte solvent mixture, having the chemical formula R.sub.1 (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n R.sub.2, where ranges between 1 and 10, R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 are different or identical groups selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkoxy, substituted alkyl, and substituted alkoxy groups; and c) a sulfur dioxide oxidizing agent additive comprising no more than about 49% by weight of the electrolyte solvent mixture.
The electrolyte of claim 38, wherein the electrolyte contains about 3.2% by weight sulfur dioxide.
The electrolyte of claim 38, wherein said electrolyte is in a liquid state.
The electrolyte of claim 38, wherein said electrolyte is in a gel state.
The electrolyte of claim 38, wherein said electrolyte is in a solid state.
A battery cell comprising: b) a negative lithium electrode; b) a positive electrode comprising an electrochemically active material; c) an electrolyte including a i) a main solvent of an electrolyte solvent mixture, having the chemical formula R.sub.1 (CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 O).sub.n R.sub.2, where n ranges between 1 and 10, R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 are different or identical groups selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkoxy, substituted alkyl, and substituted alkoxy groups; and ii) a sulfur dioxide oxidizing agent additive comprising no more than about 49% by weight of the electrolyte solvent mixture.
The cell of claim 43, wherein the electrolyte contains about 3.2% by weight sulfur dioxide.
The electrolyte of claim 43, wherein said electrolyte is in a liquid state.
The electrolyte of claim 43, wherein said electrolyte is in a gel state.
The electrolyte of claim 43, wherein said electrolyte is in a solid state.
Nonaqueous organic electrolytes for low temperature discharge of  rechargeable electrochemical cells
An alkali metal secondary electrochemical cell, and preferably a lithium ion cell, activated with an equilibrated quaternary solvent system, is described.
The solvent system comprises a mixture of dialkyl carbonates and cyclic carbonates, and preferably a quaternary mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, ethylmethyl carbonate and ethylene carbonate with dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethylmethyl carbonate in an equilibrated molar mixture.
Lithium ion cells activated with this electrolyte have good room temperature cycling characteristics and excellent low temperature discharge behavior.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode of a negative electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with an alkali metal; b) a positive electrode comprising an alkali metal intercalated electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with the alkali metal; c) an electrolyte solution activating the negative and positive electrodes, the electrolyte (including an alkali metal salt dissolved in a mixture comprising dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a% of DMC and 1-a% of DEC and with the negative electrode deintercalated with the alkali metal and the positive electrode intercalated with the alkali metal before being activated with the electrolyte, the DMC, EMC and DEC are in an essentially equilibrated mixture, by molar percent, as determined by the formula: [EMC].sup.2 /([DMC][DEC]) equal to about 4.0.+-.0.15 and wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the carbonate solvent mixture further includes at least one cyclic carbonate selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate and vinylene carbonate.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode of a negative electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; b) a positive electrode comprising a lithiated electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; and c) an electrolyte solution activating the negative and positive electrodes, the electrolyte including an alkali metal salt dissolved in a mixture comprising dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with lithium and the positive electrode intercalated with lithium before being activated with the electrolyte, the dimethyl carbonate, the ethyl methyl carbonate and the diethyl carbonate are in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR2## d) wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a% of DMC and 1-a% of DEC entered on the abscissa of the graph and then from the a(DMC)% point moving up the y-intersect to determine the equilibrated molar mixture by intersecting curve 10 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, intersecting curve 12 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of ENG and intersecting curve 14 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC; and e) wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3 wherein the electrolyte further includes ethylene carbonate in the range of about 20% to about 50%, and the dimethyl carbonate is in the range of about 12% to about 75%, the ethyl methyl carbonate is in the range of about 5% to about 45%, and the diethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3 wherein the electrolyte includes a salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.3, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3 wherein the negative electrode active material is selected from the group consisting of coke, carbon black, graphite, acetylene black, carbon fibers, a glassy carbon, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3 wherein the negative electrode active material is mixed with a fluoro-resin binder.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3 wherein the lithiated electrode active material is selected from the group consisting of lithiated oxides, lithiated sulfides, lithiated selenides and lithiated tellurides of the group selected from vanadium, titanium, chromium, copper, molybdenum, niobium, iron, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 8 wherein the lithiated electrode active material is mixed with a fluoro-resin binder.
The electrochemical cell of claim 8 wherein the lithiated electrode active material is mixed with a conductive addition selected from the group consisting of acetylene black, carbon black, graphite, nickel powder, aluminum powder, titanium powder, stainless steel powder, and mixtures thereof.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode of a carbonaceous material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; b) a positive electrode comprising lithium cobalt oxide which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; and c) an electrolyte solution activating the negative electrode and the positive electrode, the electrolyte including a lithium salt dissolved in a mixture comprising dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with lithium and the positive electrode intercalated with lithium before being activated with the electrolyte, the dimethyl carbonate, the ethyl methyl carbonate and the diethyl carbonate are in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR3## wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a% of DMC and 1-a% of DEC entered on the abscissa of the graph and then from the a(DMC)% point moving up the y-intersect to determine the equilibrated molar mixture by intersecting curve 10 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, intersecting curve 12 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and intersecting curve 14 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC; and d) wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
A method for converting chemical energy to electrical energy from an electrochemical cell, comprising the steps of: a) providing a negative electrode comprising a carbonaceous negative electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with an alkali metal; b) providing a positive electrode comprising an alkali metal intercalated electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with the alkali metal; c) providing an electrolyte including an alkali metal salt dissolved in a mixture comprising dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC); d) assembling the negative electrode deintercalated with the alkali metal and the positive electrode intercalated with the alkali metal before activating the negative electrode and the positive electrode with the electrolyte, the electrolyte having from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a% of DMC and 1-a% of DEC, the DMC, EMC and DEC in an essentially equilibrated mixture, by molar percent, as determined by the formula: [EMC].sup.2 /([DMC][DEC]) equal to about 4.0.+-.0.15; and e) re-charging the cell a first time with the negative electrode intercalating the alkali metal and the positive electrode deintercalating the alkali metal, wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl C carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
The method of claim 12 including providing the carbonate solvent mixture further having at least one cyclic carbonate selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate and vinylene carbonate.
A method for providing an electrochemical cell, comprising the steps of: a) providing a negative electrode comprising a negative electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; b) providing a positive electrode comprising a lithiated electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; and c) providing an electrolyte including an alkali metal salt dissolved in a mixture comprising dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC); d) assembling the cell having the negative electrode deintercalated with the lithium and the positive electrode intercalated with lithium before activating the negative electrode and the positive electrode with the electrolyte having the dimethyl carbonate, the ethyl methyl carbonate and the diethyl carbonate in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR4## wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a% of DMC and 1-a% of DEC entered on the abscissa of the graph and then from the a(DMC)% point moving up the y-intersect to determine the equilibrated molar mixture by intersecting curve 10 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, intersecting curve 12 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and intersecting curve 14 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC; and e) re-charging the cell a first time with the negative electrode intercalating the alkali metal and the positive electrode deintercalating the alkali metal such that the rate at which EMC is producible from DMC and DEC by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which EMC is disproportionable into DMC and DEC such that the equilibrated molar mixture of DMC, DEC and ENG essentially does not change upon further charging and discharging of the cell.
The method of claim 14 wherein the electrolyte further includes ethylene carbonate in the range of about 20% to about 50%, and the dimethyl carbonate is in the range of about 12% to about 75%, the ethyl methyl carbonate is in the range of about 5% to about 45%, and the diethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The method of claim 14 wherein the alkali metal salt is selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.2, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 14 including selecting the negative electrode active material from the group consisting of coke, carbon black, graphite, acetylene black, carbon fibers, glassy carbon, and mixtures thereof.
An electrolyte for activating an electrochemical cell, the electrolyte comprising: a) dimethyl carbonate (DMC); b) ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC); and c) diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein the DMC, EMC and DEC are in an essentially equilibrated molar ##STR5## mixture as determined by the graph of: d) wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a% of DMC and 1-a% of DEC entered on the abscissa of the graph and then from the a(DMC)% point moving up the y-intersect to determine the equilibrated molar mixture by intersecting curve 10 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, intersecting curve 12 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and intersecting curve 14 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC. 19.
The electrolyte of claim 18 comprising ethylene carbonate mixed with the equilibrated molar mixture of DMC, EMC and DEC. 20.
The electrolyte of claim 18 wherein the electrolyte further includes ethylene carbonate in the range of about 20% to about 50%, and the dimethyl carbonate is in the range of about 12% to about 75%, the ethyl methyl carbonate is in the range of about 5% to about 45%, and the diethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The electrolyte of claim 18 further including an alkali metal salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.2, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
A method for providing an electrolyte, comprising the steps of: a) providing a beginning molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate (DMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC); and b) determining an essentially equilibrated molar mixture of DMC, DEC and ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) by the graph of: ##STR6## wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a% of DMC and 1-a% of DEC entered on the abscissa of the graph and then from the a(DMC)% point moving up the y-intersect to determine the equilibrated molar mixture by intersecting curve 10 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, intersecting curve 12 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and intersecting curve 14 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC. 23.
The method of claim 22 including mixing ethylene carbonate with the equilibrated molar mixture of DMC, EMC and DEC. 24.
The method of claim 22 wherein the electrolyte further includes ethylene carbonate in the range of about 20% to about 50%, and the dimethyl carbonate is in the range of about 12% to about 75%, the ethyl methyl carbonate is in the range of about 5% to about 45%, and the diethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The method of claim 22 further including providing the electrolyte having a salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.2, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode of a negative electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; b) a positive electrode comprising a lithiated electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; and c) an electrolyte solution activating the negative and positive electrodes, the electrolyte including an alkali metal salt dissolved in a mixture comprising dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (ENG) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with lithium and the positive electrode intercalated with lithium before being activated with the electrolyte, the dimethyl carbonate, the ethyl methyl carbonate and the diethyl carbonate are in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR7## d) wherein the equilibrated molar mixture is determined by intersecting curves 10, 12 and 14 with a line projecting from the abscissa of the graph and aligned parallel to the ordinate, and wherein the intersection of the line with curve 10 is the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, the intersection of the line with curve 12 is the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and the intersection of the line with curve 14 is the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC; and e) wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
A method for providing an electrochemical cell, comprising the steps of: a) providing a negative electrode comprising a negative electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; b) providing a positive electrode comprising a lithiated electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; and c) providing an electrolyte including an alkali metal salt dissolved in a mixture comprising dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC); d) assembling the cell having the negative electrode deintercalated with the lithium and the positive electrode intercalated with lithium before activating the negative electrode and the positive electrode with the electrolyte having the dimethyl carbonate, the ethyl methyl carbonate and the diethyl carbonate in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR8## wherein the equilibrated molar mixture is determined by intersecting curves 10, 12 and 14 with a line projecting from the abscissa of the graph and aligned parallel to the ordinate, and wherein the intersection of the line with curve 10 is the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, the intersection of the line with curve 12 is the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and the intersection of the line with curve 14 is the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC; and f) re-charging the cell a first time with the negative electrode intercalating the alkali metal and the positive electrode deintercalating the alkali metal such that the rate at which EMC is producible from DMC and DEC by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which EMC is disproportionable into DMC and DEC such that the equilibrated molar mixture of DMC, DEC and EMC essentially does not change upon further charging and discharging of the cell.
An electrolyte for activating an electrochemical cell, the electrolyte comprising: a) dimethyl carbonate (DMC); b) ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC); and c) diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein the DMC, EMC and DEC are in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR9## d) wherein the equilibrated molar mixture is determined by intersecting curves 10, 12 and 12 with a line projecting from the abscissa of the graph and aligned parallel to the ordinate, and wherein the intersection of the line with curve 10 is the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, the intersection of the line with curve 12 is the equilibrated molar percentage of ENG and the intersection of the line with curve 14 is the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC. 29.
A method for providing an electrolyte, comprising the steps of: a) determining an essentially equilibrated molar mixture of DMC, DEC and ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) by the graph of: ##STR10## wherein the equilibrated molar mixture is determined by intersecting curves 10, 12 and 14 with a line projecting from the abscissa of the graph and aligned parallel to the ordinate, and wherein the intersection of the line with curve 10 is the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, the intersection of the line with curve 12 is the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and the intersection of the line with curve 14 is the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC.
Organic carbonate additives for nonaqueous electrolyte rechargeable  electrochemical cells
A lithium ion electrochemical cell having high charge/discharge capacity, long cycle life and exhibiting a reduced first cycle irreversible capacity, is described.
The stated benefits are realized by the addition of at least one carbonate additive to an electrolyte comprising an alkali metal salt dissolved in a solvent mixture including ethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate.
The preferred additive is either a linear or cyclic carbonate containing covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group wherein at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode comprising a material which intercalates and deintercalates with an alkali metal; b) a positive electrode comprising an alkali metal-containing electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with the alkali metal; c) a nonaqueous electrolyte activating the negative and the positive electrodes, the electrolyte including a mixture of dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with the alkali metal and the positive electrode intercalated with the alkali metal before being activated with the electrolyte, the dimethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate are in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR4## wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a % of DMC and 1-a % of DEC entered on the abscissa of the graph and then from the a(DMC) % point moving up the y-intersect to determine the equilibrated molar mixture by intersecting curve 10 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, intersecting curve 12 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and intersecting curve 14 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC; and d) a carbonate additive having the general formula X--O--CO--O--Y provided in the electrolyte, wherein the additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2, CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and N(.dbd.C)R.sub.6 R.sub.7 and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2, CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5 and N(.dbd.C)R'.sub.6 R'.sub.7 ; and e) wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R'.sub.1 and R'.sub.2 are a substituted or unsubstituted N-containing heterocyclic group of 6 to 14 ring members in which the nitrogen of the heterocycle is bonded to the oxygen bonded to the carbonyl; f) wherein R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) H; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iv) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkyl; v) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkenyl; vi) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkynyl; vii) a C.sub.1-9 alkoxy; viii) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkyl; ix) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkenyl; and x) --CX.sub.3 in which X=Cl or F; g) wherein R.sub.6, R.sub.7, R'.sub.6 and R'.sub.7 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; and iii) a cyano group; and h) wherein the cell is repeatedly cyclable between a discharged and a charged state with the dimethyl carbonate, the ethyl methyl carbonate and the diethyl carbonate remaining in the equilibrated molar mixture and wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the carbonate additive is selected from the group consisting of di-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, benzyl-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, di(1-benzotriazolyl)carbonate, N-(benzyloxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, N-benzyloxycarbonyloxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide, N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyloxy) succinimide, 2-(4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyloxyimino)-2-phenylacetonitrile, 1,5-bis(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)pentane, succinimidyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate, diallyl carbonate, allyl ethyl carbonate, 4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolan-2-one, dibenzyl carbonate, succinimidyl benzotriazolyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the carbonate additive is present in the electrolyte in a range of about 0.001M to about 0.40M.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the carbonate additive is dibenzyl carbonate present in the electrolyte at a concentration up to about 0.05M.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the carbonate additive is benzyl-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate present in the electrolyte at a concentration up to about 0.01M.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte further includes ethylene carbonate in the range of about 10% to about 50%, and the dimethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 75%, the ethyl methyl carbonate is in the range of about 5% to about 50%, and the diethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte includes an alkali metal salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.3, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 7 wherein the alkali metal is lithium.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 including selecting the negative electrode material from the group consisting of coke, carbon black, graphite, acetylene black, carbon fibers, glassy carbon, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the carbonaceous material is mixed with a fluoro-resin binder.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the lithiated material of the positive electrode is selected from the group consisting of lithiated oxides, lithiated sulfides, lithiated selenides and lithiated tellurides of the group selected from vanadium, titanium, chromium, copper, molybdenum, niobium, iron, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 11 wherein the lithiated material is mixed with a fluoro-resin binder.
The electrochemical cell of claim 11 wherein the lithiated material is mixed with a conductive addition selected from the group consisting of acetylene black, carbon black, graphite, nickel powder, aluminum powder, titanium powder, stainless steel powder, and mixtures thereof.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode comprising a carbonaceous material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; b) a positive electrode comprising lithium cobalt oxide; and c) an electrolyte solution activating the negative electrode and the positive electrode, the electrolyte including an alkali metal salt dissolved in a mixture of dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with the alkali metal and the positive electrode intercalated with the alkali metal before being activated with the electrolyte, the dimethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate are in an equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR5## wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a % of DMC and 1-a % of DEC entered on the abscissa of the graph and then from the a(DMC)% point moving up the y-intersect to determine the equilibrated molar mixture by intersecting curve 10 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, intersecting curve 12 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and intersecting curve 14 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC; and d) a carbonate additive having the general formula X--O--CO--O--Y provided in the electrolyte, wherein the additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2, CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and N(.dbd.C)R.sub.6 R.sub.7 and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2, CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5 and N(.dbd.C)R'.sub.6 R'.sub.7 ; and e) wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R'.sub.1 and R'.sub.2 are a substituted or unsubstituted N-containing heterocyclic group of 6 to 14 ring members in which the nitrogen of the heterocycle is bonded to the oxygen bonded to the carbonyl; f) wherein R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) H; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iv) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkyl; v) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkenyl; vi) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkynyl; vii) a C.sub.1-9 alkoxy; viii) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkyl; ix) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkenyl; and x) --CX.sub.3 in which X=Cl or F; g) wherein R.sub.6, R.sub.7, R'.sub.6 and R'.sub.7 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; and iii) a cyano group; and h) wherein the cell is repeatedly cyclable between a discharged and a charged state with the dimethyl carbonate, the ethyl methyl carbonate and the diethyl carbonate remaining in the equilibrated molar mixture and wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
The electrochemical cell of claim 14 wherein the carbonate additive is selected from the group consisting of di-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, benzyl-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, di(1-benzotriazolyl)carbonate, N-(benzyloxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, N-benzyloxycarbonyloxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide, N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, 2-(4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyloxyimino)-2-phenylacetonitrile, 1,5-bis (succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)pentane, succinimidyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate, diallyl carbonate, allyl ethyl carbonate, 4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolan-2-one, dibenzyl carbonate, succinimidyl benzotriazolyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 14 wherein the electrolyte further includes ethylene carbonate in the range of about 10% to about 50%, and the dimethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 75%, the ethyl methyl carbonate is in the range of about 5% to about 50%, and the diethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The electrochemical cell of claim 14 wherein the electrolyte includes an alkali metal salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.3, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode comprising a material which intercalates and deintercalates with lithium; b) a positive electrode comprising an electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with the lithium; c) a nonaqueous electrolyte activating the negative and the positive electrodes, the electrolyte including a mixture of dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with the lithium and the positive electrode intercalated with the lithium before being activated with the electrolyte, the dimethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate are in an equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR6## wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a % of DMC and 1-a % of DEC entered on the abscissa of the graph and then from the a(DMC)% point moving up the y-intersect to determine the equilibrated molar mixture by intersecting curve 10 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, intersecting curve 12 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and intersecting curve 14 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC; d) a carbonate additive having the general formula X--O--CO--O--Y provided in the electrolyte, wherein the additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole; and e) wherein the cell is repeatedly cyclable between a discharged and a charged state with the dimethyl carbonate, the ethyl methyl carbonate and the diethyl carbonate remaining in the equilibrated molar mixture and wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
A method for providing an electrochemical cell, comprising the steps of: a) providing a negative electrode comprising a carbonaceous material which intercalates and deintercalates with an alkali metal; b) providing a positive electrode comprising a lithiated electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with the alkali metal; c) activating the negative and positive electrodes with a nonaqueous electrolyte, the electrolyte including a mixture of dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), and further including assembling the negative electrode deintercalated with the alkali metal and the positive electrode intercalated with the alkali metal before activating the negative electrode and the positive electrode with the electrolyte having the dimethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate in an equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of: ##STR7## wherein from a beginning molar mixture of DMC and DEC solvents in a ratio of a % of DMC and 1-a % of DEC entered on the abscissa of the graph and then from the a(DMC)% point moving up the y-intersect to determine the equilibrated molar mixture by intersecting curve 10 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DMC, intersecting curve 12 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of EMC and intersecting curve 14 to get the equilibrated molar percentage of DEC; and d) providing a carbonate additive having the general formula X--O--CO--O--Y in the electrolyte, wherein the additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2, CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and N(.dbd.C)R.sub.6 R.sub.7 and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2, CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5 and N(.dbd.C)R'.sub.6 R'.sub.7 ; e) wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R'.sub.1 and R'.sub.2 are a substituted or unsubstituted N-containing heterocyclic group of 6 to 14 ring members in which the nitrogen of the heterocycle is bonded to the oxygen bonded to the carbonyl; f) wherein R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) H; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iv) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkyl; v) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkenyl; vi) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkynyl; vii) a C.sub.1-9 alkoxy; viii) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkyl; ix) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkenyl; and x) --CX.sub.3 in which X=Cl or F; g) wherein R.sub.6, R.sub.7, R'.sub.6 and R'.sub.7 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; and iii) a cyano group; and h) wherein the cell is repeatedly cyclable between a discharged and a charged state with the dimethyl carbonate, the ethyl methyl carbonate and the diethyl carbonate remaining in the equilibrated molar mixture and wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
The method of claim 19 including selecting the carbonate additive from the group consisting of di-(N-succinimidyl) carbonate, benzyl-(N-succinimidyl)carbonate, di(1-benzotriazolyl)carbonate, N-(benzyloxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, N-benzyloxycarbonyloxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide, N-(9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyloxy)succinimide, 2-(4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyloxyimino)-2-phenylacetonitrile, 1,5-bis(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)pentane, succinimidyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate, diallyl carbonate, allyl ethyl carbonate, 4-phenyl-1,3-dioxolan-2-one, dibenzyl carbonate, succinimidyl benzotriazolyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 19 wherein the carbonate additive is present in the electrolyte in a range of about 0.001M to about 0.40M.
The method of claim 19 wherein the carbonate additive is dibenzyl carbonate present in the electrolyte at a concentration up to about 0.05M.
The method of claim 19 wherein the carbonate additive is benzyl-(N-succinimidyl)carbonate present in the electrolyte at a concentration up to about 0.01M.
The method of claim 19 wherein the electrolyte further includes ethylene carbonate in the range of about 10% to about 50%, and the dimethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 75%, the ethyl methyl carbonate is in the range of about 5% to about 50%, and the diethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The method of claim 19 wherein the electrolyte includes an alkali metal salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.3, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 19 wherein the alkali metal is lithium.
The method of claim 19 wherein the lithiated electrode active material of the positive electrode is selected from the group consisting of lithiated oxides, lithiated sulfides, lithiated selenides and lithiated tellurides of the group selected from vanadium, titanium, chromium, copper, molybdenum, niobium, iron, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 19 wherein the carbonaceous material of the negative electrode is selected from the group consisting of coke, carbon black, graphite, acetylene black, carbon fibers, glassy carbon, and mixtures thereof.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode of a negative electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with an alkali metal; b) a positive electrode comprising an alkali metal intercalated electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with the alkali metal; e) an electrolyte solution activating the negative and positive electrodes, the electrolyte including an alkali metal salt dissolved in a mixture comprising dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with the alkali metal and the positive electrode intercalated with the alkali metal before being activated with the electrolyte, the DMC, EMC and DEC are in an essentially equilibrated mixture, by molar percent, as determined by the formula: [EMC].sup.2 /([DMC][DEC]) equal to about 4.0.+-.0.15 and wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges; d) a carbonate additive having the general formula X--O--CO--O--Y in the electrolyte, wherein the additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2, CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and N(.dbd.C)R.sub.6 R.sub.7 and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2, CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5 and N(.dbd.C)R'.sub.6 R'.sub.7 ; e) wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R'.sub.1 and R'.sub.2 are a substituted or unsubstituted N-containing heterocyclic group of 6 to 14 ring members in which the nitrogen of the heterocycle is bonded to the oxygen bonded to the carbonyl; f) wherein R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) H; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iv) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkyl; v) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkenyl; vi) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkynyl; vii) a C.sub.1-9 alkoxy; viii) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkyl; ix) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkenyl; and x) --CX.sub.3 in which X=Cl or F; and g) wherein R.sub.6, R.sub.7, R'.sub.6 and R'.sub.7 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; and iii) a cyano group.
The electrochemical cell of claim 29 wherein the carbonate solvent mixture further includes at least one cyclic carbonate selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate and vinylene carbonate.
A method for converting chemical energy to electrical energy from an electrochemical cell, comprising the steps of: a) providing a negative electrode comprising a carbonaceous negative electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with an alkali metal; b) providing a positive electrode comprising an alkali metal intercalated electrode active material which intercalates and deintercalates with the alkali metal; f) providing an electrolyte including an alkali metal salt dissolved in a mixture comprising dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC); e) providing a carbonate additive having the general formula X--O--CO--O--Y in the electrolyte, wherein the additive is either linear or cyclic and includes covalent O--X and O--Y bonds on opposite sides of a carbonyl group and at least one of the O--X and the O--Y bonds has a dissociation energy less than about 80 kcal/mole, and wherein X and Y are the same or different and X is selected from NR.sub.1 R.sub.2, CR.sub.3 R.sub.4 R.sub.5 and N(.dbd.C)R.sub.6 R.sub.7 and Y is selected from NR'.sub.1 R'.sub.2, CR'.sub.3 R'.sub.4 R'.sub.5 and N (.dbd.C) R'.sub.6 R'.sub.7 ; f) wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R'.sub.1 and R'.sub.2 are a substituted or unsubstituted N-containing heterocyclic group of 6 to 14 ring members in which the nitrogen of the heterocycle is bonded to the oxygen bonded to the carbonyl; g) wherein R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, R'.sub.3, R'.sub.4 and R'.sub.5 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) H; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; iv) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkyl; v) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkenyl; vi) a branched or unbranched C.sub.1-9 alkynyl; vii) a C.sub.1-9 alkoxy; viii) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkyl; ix) a C.sub.3-14 cycloalkenyl; and x) --CX.sub.3 in which X=Cl or F; h) wherein R.sub.6, R.sub.7, R'.sub.6 and R'.sub.7 are independently selected from the group consisting of: i) a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; ii) a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl group of 6 to 14 ring members; and iii) a cyano group; j) assembling the negative electrode deintercalated with the alkali metal and the positive electrode intercalated with the alkali metal before activating the negative electrode and the positive electrode with the electrolyte having the DMC, EMC and DEC in an essentially equilibrated mixture, by molar percent, as determined by the formula: [EMC].sup.2 /([DMC][DEC]) equal to about 4.0.+-.0.15; and k) re-charging the cell a first time with the negative electrode intercalating the alkali metal and the positive electrode deintercalating the alkali metal, wherein in the equilibrated molar mixture, the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is producible from dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate by an ester exchange reaction is essentially equal to the rate at which ethyl methyl carbonate is disproportionable into dimethyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate such that the equilibrated molar mixture of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate essentially does not change as the cell discharges.
The method of claim 31 including providing the carbonate solvent mixture further having at least one cyclic carbonate selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate and vinylene carbonate.
Intercalation compounds and electrodes for batteries
This invention concerns intercalation compounds and in particular lithium intercalation compounds which have improved properties for use in batteries.
Compositions of the invention include particulate metal oxide material having particles of multicomponent metal oxide, each including an oxide core of at least first and second metals in a first ratio, and each including a surface coating of metal oxide or hydroxide that does not include the first and second metals in the first ratio formed by segregation of at least one of the first and second metals from the core.
The core may preferably comprise Li.sub.x M.sub.y N.sub.z O.sub.2 wherein M and N are metal atom or main group elements, x, y and z are numbers from about 0 to about 1 and y and z are such that a formal charge on M.sub.y N.sub.z portion of the compound is (4-x), and having a charging voltage of at least about 2.5V.
The invention may also be characterized as a multicomponent oxide microstructure usable as a lithium intercalation material including a multiphase oxide core and a surface layer of one material, which is a component of the multiphase oxide core, that protects the underlying intercalation material from chemical dissolution or reaction.
In a particular preferred example the multicomponent oxide may be an aluminum-doped lithium manganese oxide composition.
Such aluminum-doped lithium manganese oxide compositions, having an orthorhombic structure, also form a part of the invention.
In addition, the invention includes articles, particularly electrodes, for batteries formed from the compositions of the invention, and batteries including such electrodes.
The invention further relates to a composite intercalation material comprising at least two compounds in which at least one compound has an orthorhombic structure Li.sub.x Al.sub.y Mn.sub.1-y O.sub.2, where y is nonzero, or a mixture of orthorhombic and monoclinic Li.sub.x Al.sub.y Mn.sub.1-y O.sub.2.
A composition including: particulate metal oxide material including a plurality of particles of multicomponent metal oxide, each including an oxide core of at least first and second metals in a first ratio, and each including a surface coating of metal oxide or hydroxide that does not include the first and second metals in the first ratio formed by segregation of at least one of the first and second metals from the core.
An article including a plurality of particles as recited in claim 1, wherein the particles are ion intercalation particles at least some of which are in contact with an electrically-conductive material and on ionically-conductive material.
An article as in claim 2, constructed and arranged as an electrode useable in an ion-conducting battery.
A composition as in claim 1, wherein each particle includes a surface layer of a thickness at least about 2% the diameter of the particle.
A composition as in claim 1, wherein each particle includes a surface layer of a thickness at least 5% the diameter of the particle.
A composition as in claim 1, wherein each particle includes a surface layer of a thickness at least 5 nm.
A composition as in claim 1, wherein the surface coating is amorphous or glassy.
A composition as in claim 1, wherein the surface coating and each particle of the plurality of particles have a same crystal structure.
A compositions as in claim 1, wherein the surface coating is an epitaxial crystalline layer extending a crystal lattice of each particle of the plurality of particles.
A composition including: particulate metal oxide material including a plurality of particles of a multicomponent metal oxide, each including an oxide core of at least first and second metals in a first ratio, and each including a surface coating of metal oxide or hydroxide that does not include the first and second metals in the first ratio formed by application of an auxiliary metal oxide or hydroxide to the particles, and the cores comprise Li.sub.x M.sub.y N.sub.z O.sub.2, wherein M is a metal atom or a main group element, N is a metal atom or a main group element, x is a number from about 0 to about 1, y is a number from about 0 to about 1, z is a number from about 0 to about 1, y and z are such that a formal change on a M.sub.y N.sub.z portion of the compound is (4-x), and having a charging voltage of at least about 2.5 V. 11.
A non-aqueous electrolyte lithium secondary battery including a positive electrode, negative electrode capable of absorbing and desorbing lithium in a reversible manner and a lithium ion conducting non-aqueous electrolyte, wherein the positive electrode includes a composition according to claim 1.
Thin film battery and electrolyte therefor
A solid amorphous electrolyte composition for a thin-film battery.
The electrolyte composition includes a lithium phosphorus oxynitride material containing a sulfide ion dopant wherein the atomic ratio of sulfide ion to phosphorus ion (S/P) in the electrolyte ranges greater than 0 up to about 0.2.
The composition is represented by the formula: where 2x+3y+2z=5+w, x ranges from about 3.2 to about 3.8, y ranges from about 0.13 to about 0.46, z ranges from greater than zero up to about 0.2, and w ranges from about 2.9 to about 3.3.
Thin-film batteries containing the sulfide doped lithium oxynitride electrolyte are capable of delivering more power and energy than thin-film batteries containing electrolytes without sulfide doping.
A solid amorphous electrolyte composition for a thin-film battery comprising a lithium phosphorus oxynitride material containing a sulfide ion dopant wherein the atomic ratio of sulfide ion to phosphorus ion (S/P) in the electrolyte ranges from greater than 0 up to about 0.2 and wherein the composition is represented by the formula: where 2x+3y+2z=5+w, x ranges from about 3.2 to about 3.8, y ranges from about 0.13 to about 0.46, z ranges from greater than zero up to about 0.2, and w ranges from about 2.9 to about 3.3.
The composition of claim 1 wherein the S/P ratio ranges from about 0.10 to about 0.15.
The composition of claim 1 comprising from about 37.4 to about 39.7 atomic percent lithium ion.
The composition of claim 1 comprising from about 11.8 to about 13.1 atomic percent phosphorus ion.
The composition of claim 1 comprising from about 41.7 to about 45.4 atomic percent oxygen ion.
A thin-film battery comprising the solid electrolyte of claim 1.
The thin-film battery of claim 6 comprising a cathode selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4, and V.sub.2 O.sub.5.
The thin-film battery of claim 7 including a cathode current collector comprising indium tin oxide.
A method for making a solid electrolyte for a thin-film battery comprising the steps of: providing a lithium orthophosphate (Li.sub.3 PO.sub.4) composition; providing a lithium ion and sulfide ion containing component selected from the group consisting of Li.sub.2 SO.sub.4 and Li.sub.2 S; combining the lithium orthophosphate powder and the lithium ion and sulfide ion containing powder to provide a sputtering target; sputtering the target in a gas atmosphere selected from nitrogen gas, argon gas, and mixtures of nitrogen and argon gases to provide an electrolyte film having a composition represented by the formula: where 2x+3y+2z=5+w, x ranges from about 3.2 to about 3.8, y ranges from about 0.13 to about 0.46, z ranges from greater than zero up to about 0.2, and w ranges from about 2.9 to about 3.3, and wherein the ratio of sulfide ion to phosphorus ion (S/P) ranges from greater than 0 up to about 0.2.
The method of claim 9 wherein the S/P ratio ranges from about 0.10 to about 0.15.
The method of claim 9 wherein the sputtering is conducted in pure nitrogen gas.
The method of claim 9 wherein the sputtering is conducted in pure argon gas.
The method of claim 9 wherein the sputtering is conducted in a mixture of nitrogen gas and argon gas.
The method of claim 9 wherein the sputtering is conducted over a thin-film battery cathode material selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4, and V.sub.2 O.sub.5.
A thin-film battery containing a solid electrolyte made by the method of claim 9.
The thin-film battery of claim 15 including a cathode current collector comprising indium tin oxide.
A method for making a sulfide-doped solid lithium phosphorus oxynitride electrolyte for a thin-film battery comprising the steps of: providing a lithium orthophosphate (Li.sub.3 PO.sub.4) composition as a sputtering target; sputtering the target in an atmosphere containing nitrogen gas and hydrogen sulfide gas wherein the mixture of nitrogen gas and hydrogen sulfide gas in the atmosphere is represented by the following: where t is greater than 0 and less than 1 to provide an electrolyte film having a composition represented by the formula: where 2x+3y+2z=5+w, x ranges from about 3.2 to about 3.8, y ranges from about 0.13 to about 0.46, z ranges from greater than zero up to about 0.2, and w ranges from about 2.9 to about 3.3, and wherein the ratio of sulfide ion to phosphorus ion (S/P) ranges from greater than 0 up to about 0.2.
The method of claim 17 wherein the S/P ratio ranges from about 0.10 to about 0.15.
The method of claim 17 wherein the sputtering is conducted in a mixture of nitrogen gas and argon gas.
The method of claim 17 wherein the sputtering is conducted over a thin-film battery cathode material selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4, and V.sub.2 O.sub.5.
A thin-film battery containing a solid electrolyte made by the method of claim 17.
The thin-film battery of claim 21 including a cathode current collector comprising indium tin oxide.
Nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery includes positive and negative electrodes, a separator, a nonaqueous electrolyte provided by dissolving a lithium salt in a nonaqueous solvent.
The nonaqueous electrolyte contains a compound as shown in the chemical formula below and has a boroxin ring and polyalkylene oxide chains: ##STR1## R.sub.1.dbd.R.sub.1 '--(O-Alk.sub.1).sub.n1 -- R.sub.2.dbd.R.sub.2 '--(O-Alk.sub.2).sub.n2 -- R.sub.3.dbd.R.sub.3 '--(O-Alk.sub.3).sub.n3 -- where AlK.sub.1, AlK.sub.2, AlK.sub.3 are identical with or different from one another, each of AlK.sub.1, AlK.sub.2, AlK.sub.3 representing one type of alkylene having a carbon number of 2 or 3, and R'.sub.1, R'.sub.2, R'.sub.3 are identical with or different from one another, each of R'.sub.1, R'.sub.2, R'.sub.3 representing one type of alkyl having a carbon number of 1 or 2.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery comprising: a positive electrode; a negative electrode, a separator disposed between the positive electrode and the negative electrode; a nonaqueous electrolyte provided by dissolving a lithium salt in a nonaqueous solvent, with which the separator is impregnated, wherein: the nonaqueous electrolyte contains a compound having a boroxin ring and polyalkylene oxide chains, the compound being represented by a chemical formula: ##STR6## wherein R.sub.1.dbd.R.sub.1 '--(O-Alk.sub.1).sub.n1 --, R.sub.2.dbd.R.sub.2 '--(O-Alk.sub.2).sub.n2 --, R.sub.3.dbd.R.sub.3 '--(O-Alk.sub.3).sub.n3 --, where AlK.sub.1, AlK.sub.2, AlK.sub.3 are identical with or different from one another, each of AlK.sub.1, AlK.sub.2, AlK.sub.3 representing an alkylene having a carbon number of 2 or 3, and R.sub.1 ', R.sub.2 ', R.sub.3 ' are identical with or different from one another, each of R.sub.1 ', R.sub.2 ', R.sub.3 ' representing an alkyl having a carbon number of 1 or 2, wherein n.sub.1, n.sub.2 and n.sub.3 each independently represent 1 to 10, and wherein a quantity of the compound represented by the chemical formula and contained in the nonaqueous electrolyte ranges from about 0.005 to 0.3 mol with respect to 1 mol of the lithium salt contained in a nonaqueous electrolytic solution of the nonaqueous electrolyte.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein: the alkylene is selected from the group consisting of --CH.sub.2 CH.sub.2 --, --CH.sub.2 CH(CH.sub.3)-- and --CH(CH.sub.3)CH.sub.2 --; and the alkyl is selected from the group consisting of --CH.sub.3 and --CH.sub.2 CH.sub.3.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the nonaqueous solvent is a mixture of at least two different nonaqueous organic carbonate solvents selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, and ethylmethyl carbonate.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery comprising: a positive electrode; a negative electrode; a separator disposed between the positive electrode and the negative electrode; a nonaqueous electrolyte provided by dissolving a lithium salt in a nonaqueous solvent, with which the separator is impregnated, wherein: the nonaqueous electrolyte contains a compound having a boroxine ring and polyalkylene oxide chains, the compound being represented by a chemical formula: ##STR7## wherein R.dbd.R'(OCH.sub.2 CH.sub.2).sub.n --, R'.dbd.CH.sub.3 or CH.sub.3 CH.sub.2, where n represents an integer equal to or greater than 1, and wherein a quantity of the compound represented by the chemical formula and contained in the nonaqueous electrolyte ranges from about 0.005 to 0.3 mol with respect to 1 mol of the lithium salt contained in a nonaqueous electrolytic solution of the nonaqueous electrolyte.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery according to claim 4, wherein n of the alkylene oxide chain shown in the chemical formula of claim 3 is in a range of 1 to 10.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery according to claim 4, wherein the alkylene oxide chain comprises at least one of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery according to claim 4, wherein the positive electrode is prepared by applying a mixture of a transition metal oxide and a bonding agent to a current collecting material.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery according to claim 4, wherein the negative electrode is prepared by applying a mixture of a carbonaceous material and a bonding agent to a current collecting material.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery comprising: a positive electrode; a negative electrode; a separator disposed between the positive electrode and the negative electrode; a nonaqueous liquid electrolyte provided by dissolving a lithium salt in a nonaqueous solvent, with which the separator is impregnated, wherein: the nonaqueous liquid electrolyte comprise the dissolved lithium salt, the nonaqueous solvent, and a compound having a boroxine ring and polyalkylene oxide chains, the compound being represented by a chemical formula: ##STR8## wherein R.sub.1.dbd.R.sub.1 '--(O-Alk.sub.1).sub.n1 --, R.sub.2.dbd.R.sub.2 '--(O-Alk.sub.2).sub.n2 --, R.sub.3.dbd.R.sub.3 '--(O-Alk.sub.3).sub.n3 --, where AlK.sub.1, AlK.sub.2, AlK.sub.3 are identical with or different from one another, each of AlK.sub.1, AlK.sub.2, AlK.sub.3 representing an alkylene having a carbon number of 2 or 3, and R.sub.1 ', R.sub.2 ', R.sub.3 ' are identical with or different from one another, each of R.sub.1 ', R.sub.2 ', R.sub.3 ' representing an alkyl having a carbon number of 1 or 2, wherein n.sub.1, n.sub.2 and n.sub.3 each independently represent 1 to 10, wherein a quantity of the compound represented by the chemical formula and contained in the nonaqueous electrolyte ranges from about 0.005 to 0.3 mol with respect to 1 mol of the lithium salt contained in a nonaqueous electrolytic solution of the nonaqueous electrolyte.
A nonaqueous electrolyte secondary battery comprising: a positive electrode; a negative electrode; a separator disposed between the positive electrode and the negative electrode; a nonaqueous liquid electrolyte provided by dissolving a lithium salt in a nonaqueous solvent, with which the separator is impregnated, wherein: the nonaqueous liquid electrolyte comprises the dissolved lithium salt, the nonaqueous solvent, and the compound having a boroxine ring and polyalkylene oxide chains, the compound being represented by a chemical formula: ##STR9## wherein R.dbd.R'(OCH.sub.2 CH.sub.2).sub.n --, R'.dbd.CH.sub.3 or CH.sub.3 CH.sub.2, and n represent an integer equal to or greater than 1, wherein a quantity of the compound represented by the chemical formula and contained in the nonaqueous electrolytes ranges from about 0.005 to 0.3 mol with respect to 1 mol of the lithium salt contained in a nonaqueous electrolytic solution of the nonaqueous electrolyte.
Carbon fiber, electrode material for lithium secondary battery, and lithium  secondary battery
A carbon fiber has a coaxial stacking morphology of truncated conical tubular graphene layers, wherein each of the truncated conical tubular graphene layers includes a hexagonal carbon layer and has a large ring end at one end and a small ring end at the other end in an axial direction.
The hexagonal carbon layers are exposed on at least a part of the large ring ends.
Part of carbon atoms of the hexagonal carbon layers are replaced with boron atoms, whereby projections with the boron atoms at the top are formed.
An electrode material for a secondary battery using the carbon fiber excels in lifetime performance, has a large electric energy density, enables an increase in capacity, and excels in conductivity and electrode reinforcement.
An electrode material for a lithium secondary battery comprising a carbon fiber, wherein the carbon fiber has a coaxial stacking morphology of truncated conical tubular graphene layers; wherein each of the truncated conical tubular graphene layers includes a hexagonal carbon layer and has a large ring end at one end and a small ring end at the other end in an axial direction; wherein at least part of edges of the hexagonal carbon layers is exposed at the large ring ends; and wherein part of carbon atoms of the hexagonal carbon layers are replaced with boron atoms, so that projections with the boron atoms at the tops are formed.
The carbon fiber as defined in claim 1, wherein at least part of edges of the hexagonal carbon layers is exposed at the small ring ends.
The carbon fiber as defined in claim 2, wherein the coaxial stacking morphology of the truncated conical tubular graphene layers is vapor grown; and wherein at least part of a deposited film formed during the vapor growth is removed from the large and small ring ends.
The carbon fiber as defined in claim 1, wherein the coaxial stacking morphology of the truncated conical tubular graphene layers has a shape of a hollow core with no bridge.
The carbon fiber as defined in claim 1, wherein an outer surface of the carbon fiber is formed of the large ring ends stacked in the axial direction; and wherein the exposed part of the edges of the hexagonal carbon layers has an area equal to or more than 2 percentages of an area of the outer surface.
The carbon fiber as defined in claim 5, wherein positions of the large ring ends forming the outer surface are irregular, and the outer surface has minute irregularity at the level of atoms.
The carbon fiber as defined in claim 1, wherein an inner surface of the carbon fiber is formed of the small ring ends stacked in the axial direction; and wherein positions of the small ring ends forming the inner surface are irregular, and the inner surface has minute irregularity at the level of atoms.
The carbon fiber as defined in claim 1, wherein one to several hundreds of the hexagonal carbon layers are stacked.
The carbon fiber as defined in claim 1, wherein heat treatment at a temperature equal to or more than 2500.degree.
C. provides no graphitization of the carbon fiber product.
The carbon fiber as defined in claim 1, wherein heat treatment at a temperature equal to or more than 2500.degree.
C. provides no disappearance of the D peak (1360 cm.sup.-1) in the Raman spectrum.
An electrode material for a lithium secondary battery comprising the carbon fiber as defined in claim 1.
A lithium secondary battery comprising the carbon fiber as defined in claim 1 as an electrode material.
Non-aqueous electrolyte solutions comprising additives and non-aqueous  electrolyte cells comprising the same
A non-aqueous electrolyte to be used in a Li-ion battery includes a lithium salt, a cyclic carbonate, a linear carbonate and an isocyanate-based additive, with the following general formula wherein R.sup.1 represents linear or branched alkyl groups which have 1 to 7 carbon atoms, or aromatic groups having the following general formula ##STR1## wherein R.sup.2 and R.sup.3, which may be the same or different and located at any positions of carbons 2, 2', 3, 3' and 4 in the benzyl ring, represent hydrogen atoms or halogen atoms, isocyanate groups, either groups, ester groups or alkyl groups, having 1 to 3 carbon atoms, and are optionally substituted with halogen atoms.
A non-aqueous electrolyte solution comprising: at least one lithium salt; and a solvent comprising, at lest one cyclic carbonate; at least one linear carbonate; and as an additive, one or more isocyanate components of the following general formula [1] wherein R.sup.1 represents aromatic groups having the following general formula [2] ##STR4## wherein R.sup.2 and R.sup.3 are fluorine and are located at any positions of carbons 2,2',3,3' and 4 in the benzyl ring.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said one or more isocyanate component is 1-50% wt of said solvent.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 2, wherein said one or more isocyanate component is 1-15% wt of said solvent.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2, and LiAlCl.sub.4.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 4, wherein said lithium salt is LiPF.sub.6.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said lithium salt has a concentration of from 0.1-3 mol/L.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 6, wherein said lithium salt has a concentration from 0.5-2 mol/L.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said at least one cyclic carbonate is selected from the group consisting of propylene carbonate, ethylene carbonate, bulylene carbonate and vinylene carbonate.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said cyclic carbonate is 10-90% wt of said solvent.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said linear carbonate is selected from the group consisting of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate, methyl propyl carbonate, methyl isopropyl carbonate, methyl butyl carbonate and ethyl butyl carbonate.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said linear carbonate is 1.0-60% wt of said solvent.
A non-aqueous electrolyte cell comprising: the non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1; a positive electrode and a negative electrode, in said non-aqueous electrolyte solution; and a separator between said positive electrode and said negative electrode.
The non-aqueous electrolyte cell of claim 12, wherein said negative electrode is selected from the group consisting of lithium metal, lithium alloys and carbonaceous materials capable of being intercalated and de-intercalated with lithium ions.
The non-aqueous electrolyte cell of claim 13, wherein said positive electrode is selected from the group consisting of transition metal oxides, transition metal sulfides, conducting polymers and compounds capable of being reversibly polymerized and de-polymerized by electrolysis.
The non-aqueous cell of claim 13, wherein said cell is a secondary cell.
A non-aqueous electrolyte cell comprising: a non-aqueous electrolyte solution comprising: at least one lithium salt; and a solvent comprising, at least one cyclic carbonate; at least one linear carbonate; and as an additive, one or more isocyanate components of the following general formula [1] wherein R.sup.1 represents aromatic groups having the following general formula [2] ##STR5## wherein R.sup.2 and R.sup.3 are fluorine and are located at any positions of carbons 2,2',3,3' and 4 in the benzyl ring; a positive electrode and a negative electrode, in said non-aqueous electrolyte solution; and a separator between said positive electrode and said negative electrode.
A non-aqueous electrolyte cell comprising: a non-aqueous electrolyte solution comprising: at least one lithium salt, selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2, and LiAlCl.sub.4 ; and a solvent comprising, at least one cyclic carbonate; at least one linear carbonate; as an additive, one or more isocyanate components of the following general formula [1] wherein R.sup.1 represents aromatic groups having the following general formula [2] ##STR6## wherein R.sup.2 and R.sup.3 are fluorine and are located at any positions of carbons 2,2',3,3' and 4 in the benzyl ring; being 1-15% wt of said solvent; a positive electrode, selected from the group consisting of transition metal oxides, transition metal sulfides, conducting polymers and compounds capable of being reversibly polymerized and de-polymerized by electrolysis and a negative electrode; a negative electrode, selected from the group consisting of lithium metal, lithium alloys and carbonaceous materials capable of being intercalated and de-intercalated with lithium ions; and a separator between said positive electrode and said negative electrode.
Positive electrode active material for secondary cell, method for producing  the same and nonaqueous electrolyte secondary cell comprising the same
The positive active material for a secondary battery of the present invention is .beta.-FeOOH containing at least one element selected from the group consisting of B, P, S, Li, Na, K, Mg, Al, Ca, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Zr, Pb and Sn which shows a diffraction peak from the (110) plane having a half width Y satisfying 0.3.degree.<Y (2.theta.)
when subjected to the X-ray diffractometry with the CuK.alpha.
ray.
A non-aqueous electrolyte secondary battery comprising as a positive active material such low-crystalline .beta.-FeOOH exhibits an excellent cycle life performance as compared with a non-aqueous electrolyte secondary battery comprising a high-crystalline .beta.-FeOOH as a positive active material.
A positive active material for a secondary battery comprising .beta.-FeOOH that contains at least one element selected from the group consisting of P, S, Li, Na, K, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Zr, Pb and Sn and that shows a diffraction peak of (110) plane of which half width is greater than 0.3.degree.
(2.theta.)
when subjected to X-ray diffractometry with the CuK.alpha.
ray and if Li is contained in the .beta.-FeOOH, the Li is incorporated into the .beta.-FeOOH in advance of insertion/extraction of lithium.
A process for the preparation of a positive active material for a secondary battery according to claim 1 which comprises a step of hydrolyzing an aqueous solution, in which an iron salt and a salt containing at least one element selected from the group consisting of P, S, Li, Na, K, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Zr, Pb and Sn are dissolved, at a temperature of from 40.degree.
C. to 100.degree.
C. 3.
A process for the preparation of a positive active material for a secondary battery according to claim 2, wherein said iron salt is ferric chloride, said vanadium salt is VOSO.sub.4, and said aqueous solution contains FeCl.sub.3 and VOSO.sub.4 together dissolved therein at a molar ratio satisfying 0<(VOSO.sub.4 /FeCl.sub.3)<0.1.
A positive active material for a secondary battery comprising .beta.-FeOOH according to claim 1 that has particles with an aspect ratio of not greater than 5.
A positive active material for a secondary battery comprising .beta.-FeOOH according to claim 1 that has particles with a mode diameter of not greater than 10 .mu.m.
A positive active material for a secondary battery according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the amount of said at least one element selected from the group consisting of Li, Na, K, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Zr, Pb and Sn is not smaller than 0.1 wt %.
A process for the preparation of a positive active material according to claim 4 or 5, which comprises a step of hydrolyzing an aqueous solution, in which ferric chloride and a salt containing at least one element selected from the group consisting of Li, Na, K, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Zr, Pb and Sn are dissolved, at a temperature of from 40.degree.
C. to 100.degree.
C. 8.
A non-aqueous electrolyte secondary battery comprising the following elements: (1) a negative electrode comprising a negative active material capable of inserting and extracting lithium ion and/or metallic lithium; (2) a positive electrode comprising a positive active material according to any one of claim 1, 4, or 5; and (3) an electrolyte in contact with said negative electrode and positive electrode.
A positive active material for a secondary battery according to claim 1, comprising .beta.-FeOOH that contains at least one element selected from the group consisting of P, S, Li, Na, K, Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Zr, Pb, and Sn and that shows a diffraction peak of (110) plane of which half width is greater than 0.5.degree.
(2.theta.)
when subjected to X-ray diffractometry with the CuK.alpha.
ray.
Phosphate additives for nonaqueous electrolyte rechargeable electrochemical  cells
A lithium ion electrochemical cell having high charge/discharge capacity, long cycle life and exhibiting a reduced first cycle irreversible capacity, is described.
The stated benefits are realized by the addition of at least one phosphate additive having the formula: (R.sup.1 O)P(.dbd.O) (OR.sup.2) (OR.sup.3) and wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2 and R.sup.3 are the same or different, wherein at least one, but not all three, of the R groups is hydrogen, or at least one of the R groups has at least 3 carbon atoms and contains an sp or sp.sup.2 hybridized carbon atom bonded to an sp.sup.3 hybridized carbon atom bonded to the oxygen atom bonded to the phosphorous atom.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode which intercalates with an alkali metal; b) a positive electrode comprising an electrode active material which intercalates with the alkali metal; c) a nonaqueous electrolyte activating the negative and the positive electrodes; d) a phosphate additive provided in the electrolyte, wherein the phosphate additive has the formula: (R.sup.1 O)P(.dbd.O) (OR.sup.2) (OR.sup.3) with R.sup.1, R.sup.2 and R.sup.3 being the same or different, wherein at least one of the R groups contains: i) at least three carbon atoms and has a first structure of the type C(sp)-C(sp.sup.3), wherein the C(sp.sup.3) is directly connected to the --OPO-- functional group; or ii) at least three carbon atoms and has a second structure of the type C(sp.sup.2)-C(sp.sup.3), wherein the C(sp.sup.3) is directly connected to the --OPO-- functional group; and e) any remaining R group that is not i) or ii) is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, saturated organic groups containing 1 to 13 carbon atoms, and unsaturated organic groups containing 2 to 13 carbon atoms.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the phosphate additive is selected from the group consisting of benzyl phosphate, benzyl dimethyl phosphate, allyl phosphate, ally dimethyl phosphate, dibenzyl phosphate, dibenzyl methyl phosphate, diallyl phosphate, diallyl methyl phosphate, tribenzyl phosphate, triallyl phosphate, dimethyl nitromethyl phosphate, propargyl phosphate, dipropargyl phosphate, tripropargyl phosphate, dimethyl propargyl phosphate, cyanomethyl dimethyl phosphate, di (cyanomethyl) methyl phosphate, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the phosphate additive is present in the electrolyte in a range of about 0.001M to about 0.40M.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte includes a quaternary, nonaqueous carbonate solvent mixture.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte comprises at least one linear carbonate selected from the group consisting of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dipropyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate, methyl propyl carbonate, ethyl propyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 5 wherein the electrolyte comprises at least three of the linear carbonates.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte comprises at least one cyclic carbonate selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate, vinylene carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte includes a carbonate mixture of dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with the alkali metal and the positive electrode intercalated with the alkali metal before being activated with the electrolyte, the dimethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate are in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of FIG.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte comprises ethylene carbonate in the range of about 20% to about 50%, dimethyl carbonate in the range of about 12% to about 75%, ethyl methyl carbonate in the range of about 5% to about 45%, and diethyl carbonate in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte includes an alkali metal salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.3, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the alkali metal is lithium.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the negative electrode comprises a negative electrode active material selected from the group consisting of coke, carbon black, graphite, acetylene black, carbon fibers, glassy carbon, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the negative electrode active material is mixed with a fluoro-resin binder.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the positive electrode comprises a positive electrode active material selected from the group consisting of lithiated oxides, lithiated sulfides, lithiated selenides and lithiated tellurides of the group selected from vanadium, titanium, chromium, copper, molybdenum, niobium, iron, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 14 wherein the positive electrode active material is mixed with a fluoro-resin binder.
The electrochemical cell of claim 14 wherein the positive electrode active material is mixed with a conductive additive selected from the group consisting of acetylene black, carbon black, graphite, nickel powder, aluminum powder, titanium powder, stainless steel powder, and mixtures thereof.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a negative electrode which intercalates with lithium; b) a positive electrode comprising an electrode active material and which intercalates with lithium; c) an electrolyte solution activating the anode and the cathode, the electrolyte including a carbonate mixture of dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with the lithium and the positive electrode intercalated with the lithium before being activated with the electrolyte, the dimethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate are in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of FIG.
The electrochemical cell of claim 17 wherein the phosphate additive is selected from the group consisting of benzyl phosphate, benzyl dimethyl phosphate, allyl phosphate, ally dimethyl phosphate, dibenzyl phosphate, dibenzyl methyl phosphate, diallyl phosphate, diallyl methyl phosphate, tribenzyl phosphate, triallyl phosphate, dimethyl nitromethyl phosphate, propargyl phosphate, dipropargyl phosphate, tripropargyl phosphate, dimethyl propargyl phosphate, cyanomethyl dimethyl phosphate, di (cyanomethyl) methyl phosphate, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 17 wherein propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate and vinylene carbonate.
The electrochemical cell of claim 19 wherein the ethylene carbonate is in the range of about 20% to about 50%, the dimethyl carbonate is in the range of about 12% to about 75%, the ethyl methyl carbonate is in the range of about 5% to about 45%, and the diethyl carbonate is in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The electrochemical cell of claim 17 wherein the electrolyte includes an alkali metal salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.3, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) an anode of a carbonaceous material capable of intercalating lithium; b) a cathode comprising lithium cobalt oxide; and c) a nonaqueous electrolyte activating the anode and the cathode, the nonaqueous electrolyte comprising a phosphate additive of the formula: (R.sup.1 O)P(.dbd.O) (OR.sup.2) (OR.sup.3) with R.sup.1, R.sup.2 and R.sup.3 being the same or different, wherein at least one of the R groups contains: i) at least three carbon atoms and has a first structure of the type C(sp)-C(sp.sup.3), wherein the C(sp.sup.3) is directly connected to the --OPO-- functional group; or ii) at least three carbon atoms and has a second structure of the type C(sp.sup.2)-C(sp.sup.3), wherein the C(sp.sup.3) is directly connected to the --OPO-- functional group; and e) any remaining R group that is not i) or ii) is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, saturated organic groups containing 1 to 13 carbon atoms, and unsaturated organic groups containing 2 to 13 carbon atoms.
A method for providing an electrochemical cell, comprising the steps of: a) providing a negative electrode which intercalates with an alkali metal; b) providing a positive electrode comprising an electrode active material which intercalates with the alkali metal; c) activating the negative and positive electrodes with a nonaqueous electrolyte; and d) providing a phosphate additive in the electrolyte, wherein the phosphate additive has the formula: (R.sup.1 O)P(.dbd.O) (OR.sup.2) (OR.sup.3) with R.sup.1, R.sup.2 and R.sup.3 being the same or different, wherein at least one of the R groups contains: i) at least three carbon atoms and has a first structure of the type C(sp)-C(sp.sup.3), wherein the C(sp.sup.3) is directly connected to the --OPO-- functional group; or ii) at least three carbon atoms and has a second structure of the type C(sp.sup.2)-C(sp.sup.3), wherein the C(sp.sup.3) is directly connected to the --OPO-- functional group; and e) any remaining R group that is not i) or ii) is selected from the group consisting of hydxogen, saturated organic groups containing 1 to 13 carbon atoms, and unsaturated organic groups containing 2 to 13 carbon atoms.
The method of claim 23 including selecting the phosphate additive from the group consisting of benzyl phosphate, benzyl dimethyl phosphate, allyl phosphate, ally dimethyl phosphate, dibenzyl phosphate, dibenzyl methyl phosphate, diallyl phosphate, diallyl methyl phosphate, tribenzyl phosphate, triallyl phosphate, dimethyl nitromethyl phosphate, propargyl phosphate, dipropargyl phosphate, tripropargyl phosphate, dimethyl propargyl phosphate, cyanomethyl dimethyl phosphate, di (cyanomethyl) methyl phosphate, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 23 wherein the phosphate additive is present in the electrolyte in a range of about 0.001M to about 0.40M.
The method of claim 23 including providing the electrolyte comprising a quaternary, nonaqueous carbonate solvent mixture.
The method of claim 23 including providing the electrolyte comprising at least one linear carbonate selected from the group consisting of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dipropyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate, methyl propyl carbonate, ethyl propyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 27 including providing the electrolyte comprising at least three of the linear carbonates.
The method of claim 23 including providing the electrolyte comprising at least one cyclic carbonate selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate, vinylene carbonate, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 23 wherein the electrolyte including a carbonate mixture of dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC) and diethyl carbonate (DEC), wherein with the negative electrode deintercalated with the alkali metal and the positive electrode intercalated with the alkali metal before being activated with the electrolyte, the dimethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate and diethyl carbonate are in an essentially equilibrated molar mixture as determined by the graph of FIG.
The method of claim 23 including providing the electrolyte comprising ethylene carbonate in the range of about 20% to about 50%, dimethyl carbonate in the range of about 12% to about 75%, ethyl methyl carbonate in the range of about 5% to about 45%, and diethyl carbonate in the range of about 3% to about 45%, by molar.
The method of claim 23 including providing the electrolyte having an alkali metal salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiNO.sub.2, LiC(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2 CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiSCN, LiO.sub.3 SCF.sub.2 CF.sub.3, LiC.sub.6 F.sub.5 SO.sub.3, LiO.sub.2 CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.3 F, LiB(C.sub.6 H.sub.5).sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 23 including providing the alkali metal as lithium.
The method of claim 23 including providing the positive electrode comprising a positive electrode active material selected from the group consisting of lithiated oxides, lithiated sulfides, lithiated selenides and lithiated tellurides of the group selected from vanadium, titanium, chromium, copper, molybdenum, niobium, iron, nickel, cobalt, manganese, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 23 including providing the negative electrode comprising a negative electrode active material selected from the group consisting of coke, carbon black, graphite, acetylene black, carbon fibers, glassy carbon, and mixtures thereof.
Nonflammable non-aqueous electrolyte and non-aqueous electrolyte cells  comprising the same
A non-aqueous electrolyte to be used in a Li-ion battery includes a lithium salt, a cyclic carbonate, a linear carbonate and an alkyl fluorinated phosphate, of the following general formula ##STR1## wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2 and R.sup.3, independently, are selected from the group consisting of straight and branched alkyl groups having 1-5 carbon atoms, and at least one of said alkyl groups is fluorinated, with the locations of said fluorination being at least .beta.-positioned away from the phosphorous of said phosphate, such that said alkyl phosphate has a F/H ratio of at least 0.25, and said electrolyte solution is non-flammable.
A non-aqueous electrolyte solution comprising: at least one lithium salt; and a solvent comprising, at least one cyclic carbonate; at least one linear carbonate; and one or more alkyl phosphates of the following general formula [1] ##STR5## wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2 and R.sup.3, independently, are selected from the group consisting of straight and branched alkyl groups; wherein at least one of said alkyl groups is fluorinated, said flourine atoms at least .beta.-substituted from the phosphorous of said phosphate; wherein said alkyl phosphate has an F/H ratio of at least 0.25; wherein said alkyl phosphate is greater than 20% by weight of said solvent and; wherein said solution is non-flammable.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said alkyl phosphate is greater than 27% by weight of said solvent.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said alkyl phosphate is at least 30% by volume of said solvent.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said alkyl phosphate is at least 40% by volume of said solvent.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said alkyl phosphate is at least 50% by volume of said solvent.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein least one of said alkyl groups contains 1-5 carbon atoms.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said alkyl phosphate has an F/H ratio of at least 0.75.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said alkyl phosphate is selected from the group consisting of tris(trifluoroethyl)phosphate (POF-I), bis(trifluoroethyl)methyl phosphate (POF-II), diethyltrifluoroethyl phosphate (POF-III), and tris(1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoro-2-propyl)phosphate (POF-IV).
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2, and LiAlCl.sub.4.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 9, wherein said lithium salt is LiPF.sub.6.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said lithium salt has a concentration of from 0.1-3 mol/L.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 11, wherein said lithium salt has a concentration from 0.5-2 mol/L.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said at least one cyclic carbonate is selected from the group consisting of propylene carbonate, ethylene carbonate, butylene carbonate and vinylene carbonate.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said cyclic carbonate is 10-90% wt of said solvent.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said linear carbonate is selected from the group consisting of dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate, methyl propyl carbonate, methyl isopropyl carbonate, methyl butyl carbonate and ethyl butyl carbonate.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said linear carbonate is 10-60% wt of said solvent.
A non-aqueous electrolyte cell comprising: the non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1; a positive electrode and a negative electrode, in said non-aqueous electrolyte solution; and a separator between said positive electrode and said negative electrode.
The non-aqueous electrolyte cell of claim 17, wherein said negative electrode is selected from the group consisting of lithium metal, lithium alloys and carbonaceous materials capable of being intercalated and de-intercalated with lithium ions.
The non-aqueous electrolyte cell of claim 18, wherein said positive electrode is selected from the group consisting of transition metal oxides, transition metal sulfides, conducting polymers and compounds capable of being reversibly polymerized and de-polymerized by electrolysis.
The non-aqueous cell of claim 17, wherein said cell is a secondary cell.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte solution has an SET of 6 s/g at most.
The non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte solution has an SET of about zero.
A non-aqueous electrolyte cell comprising: the non-aqueous electrolyte solution of claim 1; a positive electrode and a negative electrode, in said non-aqueous electrolyte solution; and a separator between said positive electrode and said negative electrode.
A non-aqueous electrolyte cell comprising: a positive electrode and a negative electrode, in said non-aqueous electrolyte solution; and a separator between said positive electrode and said negative electrode; and a non-aqueous electrolyte solution comprising: at least one lithium salt; and a solvent comprising, at least one cyclic carbonate; at least one linear carbonate; and one or more alkyl phosphates of the following general formula [1] ##STR6## wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, independently, are selected from the group consisting of straight and branched alkyl groups having 1-5 carbon atoms, and at least one of said alkyl groups is fluorinated, with the locations of said fluorination being at least .beta.-positioned away from the phosphorous of said phosphate, such that said alkyl phosphate has F/H ratio of at least 0.25, and said electrolyte solution is non-flammable.
Use of additives in electrolyte for electrochemical cells
The invention relates to the use of salt-based compounds as additives in electrolytes for improvinq the properties of electrochemical cells.
An electrolyte comprising a lithium containing inorganic conductive salt dissolved in an aprotic solvent, wherein the electrolyte further comprises at least one organic alkali metal salt as an additive, wherein the organic alkali metal salt is a lithium borate of the formula (1) in which m and p are 0,1,2,3, or 4, where m+p=4 and R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are identical or different, are optionally bonded directly to one another by a single or double bond, and are each, individually or together, an aromatic or aliphatic carboxylic, dicarboxylic or sulfonic acid, or are each, individually or together, an aromatic ring selected from the group consisting of phenyl, naphthyl, anthracenyl and phenanthrenyl, which is optionally unsubstituted or mono- to tetrasubstituted by A or Hal, or are each, individually or together, a heterocyclic aromatic ring selected from the group consisting of pyridyl, pyrazyl and bipyridyl, which is optionally unsubstituted or mono to trisubstituted by A or Hal, or are each, individually or together, an aromatic hydroxy acid selected from the group consisting of aromatic hydroxycarboxylic acids and aromatic hydroxysulfonic acids, which is optionally unsubstituted or mono- to tetrasubstituted by A or Hal, and Hal is F, Cl or Br and A is alkyl having 1 to 6 carbon atoms, which may be mono- to trihalogenated, wherein the organic alkali metal salt additive is present in concentrations of from 0.1 to 10% by weight based on the weight of conductive salt.
An electrolyte according to claim 1, wherein the organic alkali metal salt additive is selected from the group consisting of lithium bis[1,2-benzenediolato(2-)0,0']borate(1-), lithium bis[3-fluoro-1,2-benzenediolato(2-)0,0']borate( 1-), lithium bis[2,3-naphthalenediolato(2-)0,0']borate-(1-), lithium bis[2,2'-biphenyldiolato(2-)0,0']borate(1-), lithium bis[2-olatobenzene-sulfonato(2-)0,0']borate(1-), lithium bis[salicylato(2-)-0,0']-borate(1-), lithium bis[5-fluoro-2-olatobenzenesulfonato(2-)0,0']borate, lithium bis[oxalato(2-)0,0']borate and lithium bis[molonato(2-)0,0']borate.
An electrochemical cell containing an electrolyte according to claim 1, further comprising an anode, a cathode, and a separator.
An electrochemical cell, battery or secondary lithium battery which comprises an electrolyte according to claim 1.
A secondary lithium battery comprising an electrolyte according to claim 1.
An electrolyte according to claim 1, wherein the inorganic conductive salt is LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiClO.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6 or mixtures thereof.
An electrolyte according to claim 1, wherein the aprotic solvent is ethylene carbonate (EC), dimethyl carbonate (DMC), propylene carbonate(PC), diethyl carbonate(DEC), butylene carbonate (BC), vinylene carbonate (VC), cyclopentanone, solfolane, dimethyl sulphone (DMS), 3- methyl-1,3-oxazolidin-2-one, y-butyrolactone, ethyl methyl carbonate(EMC), methylproply carbonate(MPC), butyl methyl carbonate (BMC), ethylpropyl carbonate (EPC), butyl ethyl carbonate (BEC), dipropyl carbonate (DPC), 1,2-diethoxymethane, tetrahydrofuran (THF), 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, 1,3-dioxolane, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate and mixtures thereof.
An electrolyte according to claim 1, wherein the organic alkali metal salt additive is present in concentrations of from 0.1 to 7% by weight based on the weight of conductive salt.
An electrolyte according to claim 1, wherein the organic alkali metal salt additive is present in concentrations of from 1 to 5% by weight based on the weight of conductive salt.
Polymer electrolyte and polymer lithium battery
A polymer electrolyte includes a substrate polymer, a branched polymer, and a lithium salt.
The branched polymer has a main chain whose repeating unit is composed of an oligoethylene oxide chain and a connector molecule bonded to the oligoethylene oxide chain.
The branched polymer can be a hyperbranched polymer.
The polymer electrolyte can further include a composite oxide and/or a boroxine compound.
The polymer electrolyte is good in terms of the ionic conductivity, and exhibits a high ionic conductivity especially at low temperatures.
When the polymer electrolyte is used to make polymer lithium batteries, the resulting polymer lithium batteries shows improved charge-discharge cycle characteristics.
In particular, it is possible to operate the polymer lithium batteries at low temperatures.
A polymer lithium battery, comprising: a positive electrode; a polymer electrolyte and a negative electrode wherein the polymer electrolyte comprises a copolymer and a composite lithium salt, wherein the copolymer is comprises: a substrate polymer and a branched polymer having a main chain whose repeating unit is composed of an oligoethylene oxide chain and a connector molecule bonded to the oligoethylene oxide chain the connector molecule being bonded to an end group of the main oligoethylene oxide chain by an ether bond, bonded to an end group of a branched oligoethylene oxide chain by an ether bond, and bonded to an end group of the main oligoethylene oxide chain or the branched oligoethylene oxide side chain of a neighboring repeating unit by an ester bond to form the repeating unit of the oligoethylene oxide chain wherein said lithium salt is at least one member selected from the group consisting of Li(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2 N--LiPF.sub.6 composite salts and Li(C.sub.2 F.sub.5 SO.sub.2).sub.2 N--LiPF.sub.6 composite salts.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 1, wherein said polymer electrolyte further comprises a composite oxide.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 1, wherein said composite lithium salt includes LiPF.sub.6 in an amount of from 5 to 20% by weight with respect to the entire composite lithium salt taken as 100% by weight.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 1, wherein said polymer electrolyte further comprises a boroxine compound, and said positive electrode comprises a binder, the binder comprising: a substrate polymer; a branched polymer having a main chain whose repeating unit is composed of an oligoethylene oxide chain and a connector molecule bonded to the oligoethylene oxide chain; a lithium salt; and a boroxine compound.
A polymer lithium battery, comprising: a positive electrode; a negative electrode; and a polymer electrolyte, comprising: a copolymer composed of a substrate polymer and a branched polymer, the branched polymer comprising repeating units composed of a hub molecule and an oligoethylene oxide chain bonded to the hub molecule and branched by way of the hub molecule in two directions at least; and a composite lithium salt; the hub molecule being bonded to an end group of the main oligoethylene oxide chain by an ether bond, bonded to an end group of a branched oligoethylene oxide chain by an ether bond, and bonded to an end group of the main oligoethylene oxide chain or the branched oligoethylene oxide side chain of a neighboring repeating unit by an ester bond to form the repeating unit of the oligoethylene oxide chain, wherein said composite lithium salt is at least one member selected from the group consisting of Li(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2 N--LiPF.sub.6 composite salts and Li(C.sub.2 F.sub.5 SO.sub.2).sub.2 N--LiPF.sub.6 composite salts.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 1, wherein said connector molecule is aromatic carboxylic acids having a plurality of hydroxy groups, and esters thereof.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 1, wherein said connector molecule is dihydroxy aromatic carboxylate.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 1, wherein said connector molecule is 3,5-dihydroxy benzoic acid.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 1, wherein said branched polymer is polybistriethylene glycol benzoate.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 5, wherein said connector molecule is aromatic carboxylic acids having a plurality of hydroxy groups, and esters thereof.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 5, wherein said connector molecule is dihydroxy aromatic carboxylate.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 5, wherein said connector molecule is 3,5-dihydroxy benzoic acid.
The polymer lithium battery set forth in claim 5, wherein said branched polymer is polybistriethylene glycol benzoate.
Photovoltaic cell
A photovoltaic cell is described, having a photoactive layer (4) made of two molecular components, namely an electron donor and an electron acceptor, particularly a conjugated polymer component and a fullerene component, and having two metallic electrodes (2, 5) provided on both sides of the photoactive layer (4).
In order to provide advantageous construction ratios, it is suggested that an electrically insulating transition layer (6), having a thickness of at most 5 nm, be provided between at least one electrode (5) and the photoactive layer (4).
A photovoltaic cell, comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode; a photoactive layer between the first and second electrodes, the photoactive layer comprising: a conjugated polymer component; a fullerene component; a first electrically insulating layer between the photoactive layer and the first electrode; and a second electrically insulating layer between the photoactive layer and the second electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 1, wherein the first electrically insulating layer has a thickness of at most five nanometers.
The photovoltaic cell of claims 1, wherein the first electrically insulating layer has a thickness of at most two nanometers.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 1, wherein the first electrically insulating layer comprises an alkali halogenide.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 1, wherein the first electrically insulating layer comprises lithium fluoride.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 1, wherein, during use of the photovoltaic cell, the first electrode is an electron-collecting electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 1, wherein the second electrically insulating layer has a thickness of at most five nanometers.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 1, wherein the second electrically insulating layer comprises an alkali halogenide.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 7, wherein, during use of the photovoltaic cell, the second electrode is a hole-collecting electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 9, further comprising a smoothing layer between the photoactive layer and the second electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 10, wherein the second electrically insulating layer is between the smoothing layer and the second electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 1, wherein, during use of the photovoltaic cell, the first electrode is a hole-collecting electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 12, further comprising a smoothing layer between the photoactive layer and the first electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 1, further comprising a smoothing layer between the photoactive layer and the first electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 14, wherein the smoothing layer comprises PEDOT.
The photoactive cell of claim 1, wherein the fullerene comprises functionalized fullerene PCBM.
A photovoltaic cell, comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode; a photoactive layer between the first and second electrodes, the photoactive layer comprising: an electron donor; and an electron acceptor comprising a fullerene component; a first layer comprising an alkali halogenide between the photoactive layer and the first electrode; and a second layer comprising the alkali halogenide between the photoactive layer and the second electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 17, wherein the alkali halogenide comprises lithium fluoride.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 17, wherein the first layer has a thickness of at most five nanometers.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 17, wherein the first layer has a thickness of at most two nanometers.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 17, wherein the electron donor comprises a conjugated polymer.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 21, wherein the electron acceptor comprises a fullerene component.
A photovoltaic cell, comprising: a first electrode; a second electrode; a photoactive layer between the first and second electrodes, the photoactive layer comprising: an electron donor comprising a conjugated polymer; and an electron acceptor; a first layer comprising an alkali halogenide between the photoactive layer and the first electrode; and a second layer comprising the alkali halogenide between the photoactive layer and the second electrode.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 23, wherein the alkali halogenide comprises lithium fluoride.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 23, wherein the first layer has a thickness of at most five nanometers.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 23, wherein the first layer has a thickness of at most two nanometers.
The photovoltaic cell of claim 23, wherein the electron acceptor comprises a fullerene component.
Carbon-carbon composite anode for secondary non-aqueous electrochemical  cells
The present invention provides a secondary electrochemical cell comprising a body of aprotic, non-aqueous electrolyte, first and second electrodes in effective electrochemical contact with the electrolyte, the first electrode comprising active materials such as a lithiated intercalation compound serving as the positive electrode or cathode and the second electrode comprising a carbon-carbon composite material infiltrated with polymeric binder and serving as the negative electrode or anode.
Such an electrochemical cell has improved mechanical properties and cycle life as compared with similar secondary non-aqueous electrochemical cells having carbon-carbon composite anodes that are not incorporated with polymeric binder.
A rechargeable electrochemical cell comprising a body of aprotic, non-aqueous electrolyte, first and second electrodes in effective contact with said electrolyte, the first electrode comprising a lithiated intercalation compound, and the second electrode comprising carbon-carbon composite infiltrated with polymeric binder additive.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the carbon-carbon composite is made by heating in the temperature range of 1000.degree.
C. to 3000.degree.
C. 3.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the carbon-carbon composite is infiltrated with polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) binder material.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the loading of the polymeric binder is not more than 1 mg/cm.sup.2.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the loading of the polymeric binder is in the range of 0.1 mg/cm.sup.2 to 1 mg/cm.sup.2.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the carbon-carbon composite is made from pitch-based carbon fiber.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the carbon-carbon composite is made from PAN-based carbon fiber.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the carbon-carbon composite is made from rayon-based fiber.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the lithiated transition metal intercalation compound of the first electrode comprises a compound taken from a group comprising LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiNiTiO.sub.2, LiNiCoAlO.sub.2, LiNiTiAlO.sub.2, LiNiMnAlO.sub.2, LiNiMnO.sub.2, LiNiCoMnO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2 O.sub.4, LiMnO.sub.2, LiV.sub.2 O.sub.5, LiV.sub.6 O.sub.13, LiTiS.sub.2, Li.sub.3 FeN.sub.2, Li.sub.7 VN.sub.4, Li.sub.7 MoN.sub.4, and Li.sub.2 ZrN.sub.2, and combinations of the foregoing.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the electrolyte is a non-aqueous organic electrolyte solution comprising a lithium compound solute dissolved in a non-aqueous solvent.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 10, wherein the electrolyte comprises a solute selected from a group comprising LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiCF.sub.3 SO.sub.3, LiN(CF.sub.3 SO.sub.2).sub.2, and LiClO.sub.4.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 10, wherein the electrolyte comprises a non-aqueous solvent selected from a group comprising propylene carbonate, ethylene carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dimethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate, and combinations of the foregoing.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the first electrode is a cathode comprising a metal substrate having the lithiated intercalation compound affixed to a surface thereof, wherein the second electrode is an anode comprising a carbon-carbon composite infiltrated with polymeric binder and wherein said respective surfaces of the cathode and anode are separated from one another by a micro-porous electrically non-conductive separator that is permeated by said aprotic, non-aqueous electrolyte which is in effective contact with said respective surfaces of the anode and cathode.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 13, wherein the separator comprises a micro-porous poly-olefin film.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 13, wherein the cathode and anode form a sandwich that is contained within a sealed enclosure and wherein each of said cathode and anode has a connector extending out of the sealed enclosure for connecting said cell to an external electric circuit.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 13, wherein the cathode including its substrate, anode, and the electrolyte permeated separator are all contained within a sealed enclosure and wherein each of said cathode and anode has a connector extending out of the sealed enclosure for connecting said cell to an external electric circuit.
A battery comprising a plurality of electrochemical cells as defined in claim 16, having their respective electrodes connected in an electric circuit defining a battery of said cells.
A battery comprising a plurality of electrochemical cells as defined in claim 13, having their respective electrodes connected in an electric circuit defining a battery of said cells.
A battery comprising a plurality of electrochemical cells as defined in claim 1, having their respective electrodes connected in an electric circuit defining a battery of said cells.
An electrochemical cell as defined in claim 1, wherein the electrode is formed by providing carbon-carbon composite, and then soaking the carbon-carbon composite in binder material.
A rechargeable electrochemical cell comprising a body of aprotic, non-aqueous electrolyte, first and second electrodes in effective contact with said electrolyte, the first electrode comprising a lithiated intercalation compound, and the second electrode comprising carbon-carbon composite infiltrated with polymeric binder additive, wherein the carbon-carbon composite is infiltrated with ethylene propylene diene monomer (EPDM) binder material.
Cathode compositions for lithium-ion batteries
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li[M.sup.1.sub.
(1-x) Mn.sub.x ]O.sub.2 where 0<x<1 and M.sup.1 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that M.sup.1 is a metal element other than chromium.
The composition is in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li[M.sup.1.sub.
(1-x) Mn.sub.x ]O.sub.2 where (a) 0<x<0.5 or (b) 0.5<x<1, and M.sup.1 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that M.sup.1 is a metal element other than chromium, and when M.sup.1 includes nickel, cobalt, or a combination thereof, all of the nickel has an oxidation state of +2 in air, all of the cobalt has an oxidation state of +3 in air, and all of the manganese has an oxidation state of +4 in air, said composition characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.1 is selected from the group consisting of Ni, Co, Fe, Cu, Li, Zn, V, and combinations thereof.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein x=(2-y)/3 and M.sup.1.sub.
(1-x) has the formula Li.sub.
(1-2y)/3 M.sup.2.sub.y, where 0<y<0.5 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that M.sup.2 is a metal element other than chromium, and when M.sup.2 includes nickel, cobalt, or a combination thereof, all of the nickel has an oxidation state of +2 in air, all of the cobalt has an oxidation state of +3 in air, and all of the manganese has an oxidation state of +4 in air, said cathode composition having the formula Li[Li.sub.
(1-2y)/3 M.sup.2.sub.y Mn.sub.
(2-y)/3 ]O.sub.2.
A cathode composition according to claim 3 wherein 0.083<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 3 wherein 0.167<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 3 wherein M.sup.2 is a single metal element.
A cathode composition according to claim 6 wherein M.sup.2 is Ni.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein x=(2-2y)/3 and M.sup.1.sub.
(1-x) has the formula Li.sub.
(1-y)/3 M.sup.3.sub.y, where 0<y<0.5 and M.sup.3 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that M.sup.3 is a metal element other than chromium, and when M.sup.3 includes nickel, cobalt, or a combination thereof, all of the nickel has an oxidation state of +2 in air, all of the cobalt has an oxidation state of +3 in air, and all of the manganese has an oxidation state of +4 in air, said cathode composition having the formula Li[Li.sub.
(1-y)/3 M.sup.3.sub.y Mn.sub.
(2-2y)/3 ]O.sub.2.
A cathode composition according to claim 8 wherein 0.083<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 8 wherein 0.167<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 8 wherein M.sup.3 is a single metal element.
A cathode composition according to claim 11 wherein M.sup.3 is Co. 13.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein x=y and M.sup.1.sub.
(1-x) has the formula M.sup.4.sub.y M.sup.5.sub.1-2y, where 0<y<0.5, M.sup.4 is a metal element other than chromium, and M.sup.5 is a metal element other than chromium that is different from M.sup.4, and when M.sup.4, M.sup.5, or both includes nickel, cobalt, or a combination thereof, all of the nickel has an oxidation state of +2 in air, all of the cobalt has an oxidation state of +3 in air, and all of the manganese has an oxidation state of +4 in air, said cathode composition-having the formula Li[M.sup.4.sub.y M.sup.5.sub.1-2y Mn.sub.y ]O.sub.2.
A cathode composition according to claim 13 wherein 0.083<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 13 wherein 0.167<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 13 wherein M.sup.4 is Ni.
A cathode composition according to claim 13 wherein M.sup.5 is Co. 18.
A cathode composition according to claim 13 wherein M.sup.4 is Ni and M.sup.5 is Co. 19.
A lithium-ion battery comprising: (a) an anode; (b) a cathode according to claim 1, 3, 8, or 13; and (c) an electrolyte separating said anode and said cathodes.
Method for using high rate lithium electrochemical cell containing  SVO/CFchi/SVo sandwich cathodes having .gamma.-SVO and mixture of  .gamma.-SVO/.epsilon.-SVO
A method for powering an implantable medical device with a lithium electrochemical cell having a sandwich cathode electrode of SVO/CF.sub.x/SVO active materials is described.
A preferred cathode is of a .gamma.-SVO/CF.sub.x/.gamma.-SVO or (.gamma.+.epsilon.)-SVO/CF.sub.x/(.gamma.+.epsilon.
)-SVO sandwich configuration.
A method for powering an implantable medical device, comprising the steps of: a) providing the medical device; b) providing an electrochemical cell comprising the steps of: i) providing an anode of an alkali metal; ii) providing a cathode of a configuration: first SVO/current collector/CF.sub.x/current collector/second SVO, wherein the first and second SVO materials are of the general formula Ag.sub.xV.sub.2O.sub.y with 0.80.ltoreq.x<1.0 and 5.4.ltoreq.y<5.5; and iii) activating the anode and the cathode with a nonaqueous electrolyte; and c) electrically connecting the electrochemical cell to the medical device.
The method of claim 1 including providing the first and second SVO materials of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4.
The method of claim 1 including providing the first and second SVO materials of a mixture of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4 and .epsilon.-SVO having in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5.
The method of claim 1 including providing the first and second SVO materials comprising 45% mole of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4 and 55% mole of .epsilon.-SVO having in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5.
The method of claim 1 including selecting the current collector from the group consisting of stainless steel, titanium, tantalum, platinum, gold, aluminum, cobalt nickel alloys, nickel-containing alloys, highly alloyed ferritic stainless steel containing molybdenum and chromium, and nickel-, chromium-, and molybdenum-containing alloys.
The method of claim 1 including providing the current collector of titanium screen having a coating selected from the group consisting of graphite/carbon material, iridium, iridium oxide and platinum provided thereon.
The method of claim 1 wherein the anode is lithium, the first and second SVO materials are a mixture of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4 and .epsilon.-SVO having in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5 and the current collectors are of titanium.
The method of claim 1 including providing the SVO materials and the CF.sub.x material comprising from about 80 weight percent to about 99 weight percent of the respective active materials.
The method of claim 1 including providing at least one of the SVO materials and the CF.sub.x material further comprising a binder material and a conductive additive.
The method of claim 1 including providing the electrolyte comprising a first solvent selected from an ester, a linear ether, a cyclic ether, a dialkyl carbonate, and mixtures thereof, and a second solvent selected from a cyclic carbonate, a cyclic ester, a cyclic amide, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 1 including providing the electrolyte of 0.8M to 1.5M LiAsF.sub.6 or LiPF.sub.6 dissolved in a 50:50 mixture, by volume, of propylene carbonate and 1,2-dimethoxyethane.
A method for providing an electrochemical cell, comprising the steps of: a) providing an anode of an alkali metal; b) providing a cathode of a configuration: first SVO/current collector/CF.sub.x/current collector/second SVO, wherein the first and second SVO materials are of the general formula Ag.sub.xV.sub.2O.sub.y with 0.80.ltoreq.x<1.0 and 5.4.ltoreq.y<5.5; and c) activating the anode and the cathode with a nonaqueous electrolyte.
The method of claim 12 including providing the first and second SVO materials of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4.
The method of claim 12 including providing the first and second SVO materials of a mixture of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4 and .epsilon.-SVO having in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5.
The method of claim 12 including providing the first and second SVO materials comprising 45% mole of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4 and 55% mole of .epsilon.-SVO having in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5.
The method of claim 12 including providing the current collector of titanium screen having a coating selected from the group consisting of graphite/carbon material, iridium, iridium oxide and platinum provided thereon.
The method of claim 12 wherein the anode is lithium, the first and second SVO materials are a mixture of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4 and .epsilon.-SVO having in the general formula x=1.0 and y=5.5 and the current collectors are of titanium.
The method of claim 12 including providing the electrolyte of 0.8M to 1.5M LiAsF.sub.6 or LiPF.sub.6 dissolved in a 50:50 mixture, by volume, of propylene carbonate and 1,2-dimethoxyethane.
A method for providing an electrical energy, comprising the steps of: a) providing an electrochemical of a lithium anode, a cathode of a configuration: first SVO/titanium current collector screen/CF.sub.x/titanium current collector screen/second SVO, wherein the first and second SVO materials are of the general formula Ag.sub.xV.sub.2O.sub.y with 0.80.ltoreq.x<1.0 and 5.4.ltoreq.y<5.5, and a nonaqueous electrolyte activating the anode and the cathode; and b) discharging the cell to provide the electrical energy.
The method of claim 19 including providing the first and second SVO materials of .gamma.-SVO having in the general formula x=0.80 and y=5.4.
Cathode compositions for lithium-ion batteries
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li[M.sup.1.sub.
(1-x)Mn.sub.x]O.sub.2 where 0<x<1 and M.sup.1 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that M.sup.1 is a metal element other than chromium.
The composition is in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery in which the cathode composition has the formula Li[Li.sub.(1-2y)/3M.sup.2.sub.yMn.sub.
(2-y)/3]O.sub.2, where 0.083<y<0.5 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that M.sup.2 is a metal element other than chromium, said composition characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein 0.167<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.2 is selected from the group consisting of Ni, Co, Fe, Cu, Li, Zn, V, and combinations thereof.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.2 includes Ni.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.2 includes Co. 6.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.2 includes the combination of Ni and Co. 7.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery in which the cathode composition has the formula Li[Li.sub.(1-y)/3M.sup.3.sub.yMn.sub.
(2-2y)/3]O.sub.2, where 0.083<y<0.5 and M.sup.3 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that M.sup.3 is a metal element other than chromium, and includes the combination of Ni and Co, said composition characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition according to claim 7 wherein 0.167<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 7 wherein M.sup.3 further includes an element selected from the group consisting of Fe, Cu, Li, Zn, V, and combinations thereof.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery in which the cathode composition has the formula Li[M.sup.4.sub.yM.sup.5.sub.1-2yMn.sub.y]O.sub.2, where 0.083<y<0.5 and: (a) M.sup.4 is Co and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Li and Ni or (b) M.sup.4 is Li and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Ni and Co, with the proviso that M.sup.4 and M.sup.5 do not include chromium, said composition characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition according to claim 10 wherein 0.167<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 10 wherein M.sup.5 further includes an element selected from the group consisting of Fe, Cu, Li, Zn, V, and combinations thereof.
A cathode composition according to claim 10 wherein M.sup.4 is Li and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Ni and Co. 14.
A cathode composition according to claim 10 wherein M.sup.4 is Co and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Li and Ni.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery in which the cathode composition has the formula Li[Ni.sub.yCo.sub.1-2yMn.sub.y]O.sub.2, where 0.083<y<0.5, said composition characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition according to claim 15 wherein 0.167<y<0.5.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery in which the cathode composition has the formula Li[M.sup.1.sub.
(1-x)Mn.sub.x]O.sub.2 where 0<x<1 and M.sup.1 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that (i) M.sup.1 is a metal element other than chromium, (ii) M.sup.1 includes the combination of Ni and Li, and (iii) the stoichiometry of the formula is selected such that (Li-1)/(Mn--Ni)=0.5, said composition characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition according to claim 17 wherein M.sup.1 further includes an element selected from the group consisting of Co, Fe, Cu, Zn, V, and combinations thereof.
A cathode composition according to claim 17 wherein M.sup.1 further includes Co. 20.
A cathode composition according to claim 17 wherein 0.083<x<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 17 wherein 0.167<x<0.5.
A lithium-ion battery comprising: (a) an anode; (b) a cathode comprising a composition according to claim 1, 7, 10, 15, or 16; and (c) an electrolyte separating said anode and said cathode.
Carbon materials metal/metal oxide nanoparticle composite and battery  anode composed of the same
A method of forming a composite material for use as an anode for a lithium-ion battery is disclosed.
The steps include selecting a carbon material as a constituent part of the composite, chemically treating the selected carbon material to receive nanoparticles, incorporating nanoparticles into the chemically treated carbon material and removing surface nanoparticles from an outside surface of the carbon material with incorporated nanoparticles.
A material making up the nanoparticles alloys with lithium.
A method of forming a composite material for use as an anode for a lithium-ion battery, the method comprising the steps of: selecting a carbon material as a constituent part of the composite; chemically treating the selected carbon material to receive nanoparticles; incorporating nanoparticles into the chemically treated carbon material; and removing surface nanoparticles from an outside surface of the carbon material with incorporated nanoparticles; wherein a material making up the nanoparticles alloys with lithium.
The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising a step of pre-heating the selected carbon material in an inert environment.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected carbon material can quickly store and release lithium.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected carbon material has graphene layers that are perpendicular to surfaces of the selected carbon material.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected carbon material comprises graphitized carbon fibers.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected carbon material comprises graphitic flakes.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected carbon material comprises graphitic fluoride fibers.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the step of removing surface nanoparticles comprises evaporating the surface nanoparticles.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the step of removing surface nanoparticles comprises treating the outside surface with an HCl solution.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the material making up the nanoparticles comprises palladium.
The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the material making up the nanoparticles comprises at least one of tin and tin oxide.
An anode for a lithium-ion battery, the anode comprising: a carbon material having incorporated nanoparticles, with the nanoparticles comprising a material that alloys with lithium; wherein an outside surface of the anode does not have surface nanoparticles and the carbon material comprises at least one of graphitized carbon fibers, graphitic flakes graphitic fluoride fibers.
Lithium metal oxide electrodes for lithium cells and batteries
A lithium metal oxide positive electrode for a non-aqueous lithium cell is disclosed.
The cell is prepared in its initial discharged state and has a general formula xLiMO.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.2M'O.sub.3 in which 0<x<1, and where M is more than one ion with an average trivalent oxidation state and with at least one ion being Ni, and where M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state.
Complete cells or batteries are disclosed with anode, cathode and electrolyte as are batteries of several cells connected in parallel or series or both.
A lithium metal oxide positive electrode for a non-aqueous lithium cell prepared in its initial discharged state having a general formula xLiMO.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.2M'O.sub.3 in which 0<x<1, and where M is more than one ion selected from V, Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni with an average oxidation state of three with at both Ni and Mn being present in a Mn:Ni ratio of 1:1 and where M' is one or more ions selected from Mn, Ti, Zr, Ru, Re, and Pt with an average oxidation state of four, wherein both the LiMO.sub.2 and Li.sub.2M'O.sub.3 components are layered and the ratio of Li to M and M' is greater than one and less than two.
The lithium metal oxide positive electrode according to claim 1, where M is more than one ion selected from Mn, Co, and Ni with an average oxidation state of three with at least one ion being Ni, and where M' is one or more ions selected from Mn, Ti, and Zr with an average oxidation state of four.
The lithium metal oxide positive electrode according to claim 2, where M is more than one ion selected from Mn, Co, and Ni with at least one ion being Ni, and where M' is Mn.
The lithium metal oxide positive electrode according to claim 1, in which M includes Mn, Ni and Co and the Mn:Ni ratio is 1:1.
An electrochemical cell having a negative electrode and a non-aqueous electrolyte and a positive electrode, said positive electrode having in its initial discharged state, a general formula xLiMO.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.2M'O.sub.3 in which 0<x<1, and where M is one or more ions selected from V, Fe, Mn, Co, and Ni with an average oxidation state of three, with both Ni and Mn being present in a Mn:Ni ratio of 1:1, and where M' is one or more ions having an average oxidation state of four with both the LiMO.sub.2 and Li.sub.2M'O.sub.3 components being layered and the ratio of Li to M and M' being greater than one and less than two.
A battery consisting of a plurality of cells, at least some cells including a negative electrode and a non-aqueous and a positive electrode, said positive electrode in its initial discharged state, a general formula xLiMO.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.2M'O.sub.3in which 0<x<1, and where M is one or more ions including V, Fe, Mn, Co, and Ni with an average oxidation state of three, where both Ni and Mn being present in a Mn:Ni ratio of 1:1, and where M' is one or more ions having an average oxidation state of four with both the LiMO.sub.2 and Li.sub.2M'O.sub.3components being layered and the ratio of Li to M and M' being greater than one and less than two.
Organic electrolytic solution and lithium battery using the same
The present invention relates to an electrolytic solution for a lithium battery and a lithium battery using the same.
The organic electrolytic solution includes a lithium salt, a mixed organic solvent comprising a high dielectric constant solvent and a low boiling-point solvent, and an additive.
The additive used in the electrolytic solution is a heterocyclic compound of Formula (1): ##STR00001## where R.sub.1, R.sub.2 and R.sub.3 may each independently be a C1-C10 linear or branched alkyl group; R.sub.4 may be a C1-C10 linear or branched alkylene group; X may be a heterocyclic ring containing N and O whereby a tetraallkyl orthosilicate functional group may be linked to N. The lithium battery using the organic electrolytic solution of the present invention is highly reliable and maintains a constant thickness during a charge/discharge cycle.
An organic electrolytic solution, comprising a lithium salt; a mixed organic solvent comprising a high dielectric constant solvent and a low boiling-point solvent, and an additive; wherein said additive comprises a heterocyclic compound of Formula (1): ##STR00005## where R.sub.1, R.sub.2 and R.sub.3 are each independently a C1-C10 linear or branched alkyl group, where R.sub.4 comprises a C1-C10 linear or branched alkylene group, where X is a heterocyclic ring containing N and O, and where a tetraalkyl orthosilicate functional group is linked to the N. 2.
The organic electrolytic solution of claim 1, wherein the X is derived from a compound selected from a group consisting of oxazole, isoxazole, oxazoline, oxazolanone, oxazolane, and oxazolone.
The organic electrolytic solution of claim 1, wherein the amount of the mixed organic solvent is in a range of about 80% to about 99.9% by volume based on total volume of the organic electrolytic solution.
The organic electrolytic solution of claim 1, wherein amount of the additive is in a range of about 0.1 part to about 1 part by volume based on total volume of the mixed organic solvent.
The organic electrolytic solution of claim 4, wherein the additive amount is in a range of about 0.25 part to about 1 part by volume based on total volume of said mixed organic solvent.
The organic electrolytic solution of claim 1, wherein the high dielectric constant solvent is selected from a group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate, and .gamma.-butyrolacetone.
The organic electrolytic solution of claim 1, wherein the low boiling-point solvent is selected from a group consisting of dimethyl carbonate, ethylmethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dipropyl carbonate, dimethoxyethane, diethoxyethane, and a fatty acid ester derivative.
A lithium battery, comprising: a positive electrode a negative electrode; and an organic electrolytic solution comprising a lithium salt, a mixed organic solvent of a high dielectric constant solvent and a low boiling-point solvent, and an additive, wherein the additive comprises a heterocyclic compound of Formula (1): ##STR00006## where R.sub.1, R.sub.2 and R.sub.3 are each independently a C1-C10 linear or branched alkyl group, where R.sub.4 is a C1-C10 linear or branched alkylene group, where X is a heterocyclic ring comprising N and O, and where a tetraalkyl orthosilicate functional group is linked to the N. 9.
The lithium battery of claim 8, wherein X is derived from a compound selected from the group consisting of oxazole, isoxazole, oxazoline, oxazolanone, oxazolane, and oxazolone.
The lithium battery of claim 8, wherein amount of the additive is in a range of about 0.1 part to about 1 part by volume based on a total volume of the mixed organic solvent.
The lithium battery of claim 8, wherein the additive amount is in the range of about 0.25 part to about 1 part by volume of a total volume of the mixed organic solvent.
Manganese oxide composite electrodes for lithium batteries
An activated electrode for a non-aqueous electrochemical cell is disclosed with a precursor of a lithium metal oxide with the formula xLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 for 0<x<1 and 0.ltoreq.y<1 in which the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 and LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 components have layered and spinel-type structures, respectively, and in which M is one or more metal cations.
The electrode is activated by removing lithia, or lithium and lithia, from the precursor.
A cell and battery are also disclosed incorporating the disclosed positive electrode.
An activated electrode for a non-aqueous electrochemical cell, having as a precursor thereof a lithium metal oxide with the formula xLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 for 0<x<1 and 0.ltoreq.y<1 in which the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 and LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 components have layered and spinel-type structures, respectively, and in which M is one or more metal cations, said activated electrode being activated by removing lithia, or lithium and lithia, from said precursor.
An activated electrode according to claim 1, in which M is one or more monovalent, divalent, trivalent or tetravalent cations.
An activated electrode according to claim 2, in which M is one or more Li.sup.+, Mg.sup.2+, Ni.sup.2+, Ni.sup.3+, Co.sup.2+, Co.sup.3+, Al.sup.3+, Ti.sup.4+ and Zr.sup.4+ ions.
An activated electrode according to claim 1, in which the manganese ions, or the lithium and manganese ions of the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 component are partially substituted by M cations.
An activated electrode according to claim 1, in which the components are partially reduced to provide mixed Mn.sup.4+/3+ valence in the precursor electrode.
An activated electrode of according to claim 1, in which the electrode precursor is activated electrochemically.
An activated electrode of claim 1, in which the electrode precursor is activated chemically with acid.
An activated electrode of claim 1 and further including a negative electrode, and an electrolyte, said activated electrode being activated by removing lithia, or lithium and lithia, from said precursor, thereby forming an electrochemical cell.
An activated electrode for a non-aqueous electrochemical cell, having as a precursor thereof a lithium metal oxide with the formula xLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.
(1-x) LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 for 0<x<1 and 0.ltoreq.y<1 in which the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 and LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 components have layered and spinel-type structures, respectively, and in which M is one or more metal cations, said activated electrode being activated by removing lithia, or lithium and lithia, from said precursor, wherein the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 component of the electrode precursor is replaced by a layered xLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.
(1-x) LiM'O.sub.2 component in which M' is selected from one or more first-row transition metal ions and 0<x<1.
An activated electrode according to claim 9, in which M is one or more monovalent, divalent, trivalent or tetravalent cations.
An activated electrode according to claim 9, in which M' is selected from Mn, Co and Ni ions.
An activated electrode according to claim 9, in which M' is replaced by 10% or less of Li, Mg and/or Al ions.
An activated electrode according to claim 9, in which the individual components of the electrode are either physically mixed with one another, or separated from one another in a compartmentalized electrode.
An activated electrode according to claim 9, in which the components are partially reduced to provide mixed Mn.sup.4+/3+ valence in the precursor electrode.
An activated electrode of claim 9, and further including a negative electrode, and an electrolyte, wherein said Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 component of the positive electrode precursor is replaced by a layered xLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.
(1-x)LiM'O.sub.2 component in which M' is selected from one or more first-row transition metal ions and 0<x<1, thereby forming an electrochemical cell.
An activated electrode for a non-aqueous electrochemical cell, having as a precursor thereof a lithium metal oxide with the formula xLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 for 0<x<1 and 0.ltoreq.y<1 in which the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 and LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 components have layered and spinel-type structures, respectively, and in which M is one or more metal cations, said activated electrode being activated by removing lithia, or lithium and lithia, from said precursor, wherein either the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 or LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 component of the electrode precursor is replaced by a Li.sub.2O.zMnO.sub.2 component that does not have a layered- or a spinel-type structure.
An activated electrode of claim 16, and further including a negative electrode, and an electrolyte, wherein either the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 or LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 component of the positive electrode precursor is replaced by a Li.sub.2O.zMnO.sub.2 component that does not have a layered- or a spinel-type structure, thereby forming an electrochemical cell.
A plurality of electrochemical cells of claim 8 arranged in parallel and/or in series to form a battery.
A plurality of electrochemical cells of claim 15 arranged in parallel and/or in series to form a battery.
A plurality of electrochemical cells of claim 17 arranged in parallel and/or in series to form a battery.
Lithium metal oxide electrodes for lithium batteries
An uncycled electrode for a non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell including a lithium metal oxide having the formula Li.sub.(2+2x)/(2+x)M'.sub.2x/(2+x)M.sub.
(2-2x)/(2+x)O.sub.2-.delta., in which 0.ltoreq.x<1 and .delta.
is less than 0.2, and in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more of the first row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first and second row transition metal elements and Sn.
Methods of preconditioning the electrodes are disclosed as are electrochemical cells and batteries containing the electrodes.
An electrode for a non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell, comprising a lithium metal oxide having the formula, Li.sub.(2+2x)/(2+x)M'.sub.2x/(2+x)M.sub.
(2-2x)/(2+x)O.sub.2-.delta., in which 0<x<1 and .delta.
is greater than zero and less than 0.2, and in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more of the first row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first and second row transition metal elements and Sn.
The electrode of claim 1, where .delta.
is less than 0.1.
The electrode of claim 1, in which M is selected from Co, Ni, Mn, Ti, Mg and Al, and M' is selected from Ti, Mn, Zr, Ru and Sn.
The electrode of claim 3, in which M is selected from Co, Ni and Mn, and M' is selected from Ti and Mn.
The electrode of claim 4, in which M is selected from Co, Ni and Mn, and M' is selected from Mn.
The electrode of claim 5, in which M is selected from Ni and Mn, and M' is selected from Mn.
The electrode of claim 1, in which M is selected from Co, Ni and Mn and x=0.
A method of synthesizing the electrode of claim 1 in which a xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2 electrode is subjected to a reducing environment at a temperature between about 150.degree.
C. and about 1000.degree.
C. 9.
A method according to claim 8 in which the reducing environment consists of one or more of ammonia gas, hydrogen gas, nitrogen gas and carbon.
A method according to claim 9, in which the reducing environment is ammonia gas.
A method according to claim 8, in which the reducing temperature is between 150.degree.
C. and 600.degree.
C. 12.
A method according to claim 11, in which the reducing temperature is between 150.degree.
C. and 400.degree.
C. 13.
An electrode made according to the method of claim 8.
An electrode for a non-aqueous lithium cell, having the formula of xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 compounds in which 0<x<1, 0<y<1 and 0<z<1 made from a lithium metal oxide xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2, in which 0<x<1, and in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more first-row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first- and second-row transition metal elements and Sn, the electrodes being preconditioned in a proton-containing medium with a pH<7.0.
The electrode of claim 14, in which M is selected from Co, Ni, Mn, Ti, Mg and Al, and M' is selected from Ti, Mn, Zr, Ru and Sn.
The electrode of claim 15, in which M is selected from Co, Ni and Mn, and M' is selected from Ti and Mn.
The electrode of claim 16, in which M is selected from Co, Ni and Mn, and M' is selected from Mn.
The electrode of claim 17, in which M is selected from Ni and Mn, and M' is selected from Mn.
A method of synthesizing the electrode of claim 14 by subjecting the xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2 electrode to a proton-containing medium with pH<7.0 and thereafter heating the electrode above 100.degree.
C. for less than 24 hours.
A method according to claim 19 in which the electrode is heated below 400.degree.
C. 21.
A method according to claim 19 in which the proton-containing medium consists of de-ionized water, nitric acid, acetic acid, or hydrochloric acid.
An electrode made according to the method of claim 19.
The electrode of claim 14, wherein said preconditioned electrode is at least partially dehydrated at a temperature above about 100.degree.
C. 24.
A non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell having a negative electrode, an electrolyte and a positive electrode according to claim 23.
A non-aqueous lithium battery comprising a plurality of electrically connected electrochemical cells according to claim 24.
The electrode of claim 14, wherein said proton-containing medium contains an inorganic acid.
The electrode of claim 14, wherein said proton-containing medium contains HF.
The electrode of claim 14, wherein said proton-containing medium contains fluoride ions.
A non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell comprising a negative electrode, an electrolyte and an positive electrode having a lithium metal oxide having the formula in which Li.sub.(2+2x)/(2+x)M'.sub.2x/(2+x)M.sub.
(2-2x)/(2+x)O.sub.2-.delta., in which 0<x<1 and .delta.
is greater than zero and less than 0.2, and in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more of the first row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first and second row transition metal elements and Sn.
A non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell comprising a negative electrode, an electrolyte and an positive electrode having the formula of xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x) Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 compounds in which 0<x<1, 0<y<1 and 0<z<1 made from a lithium metal oxide of xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2, in which 0<x<1, and in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more first-row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first- and second-row transition metal elements and Sn.
A non-aqueous lithium battery comprising a plurality of electrically connected electrochemical cells, each cell having a negative electrode, an electrolyte and a positive electrode formula xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yOxM'O.sub.2.
(1x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 compounds in xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2, in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more of the first row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first and second row transition metal elements and Sn.
A non-aqueous lithium battery comprising a plurality of electrically connected electrochemical cells, each cell having a negative electrode, an electrolyte and a positive electrode having the formula xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 compounds in which 0<x<1, 0<y<1 and 0<z<1 made from a lithium metal oxide of xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2, in which 0<x<1, and in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more first-row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first- and second-row transition metal elements and Sn.
Cathode compositions for lithium ion batteries
A cathode composition for a lithium ion battery that contains lithium having the formula (a) Li.sub.y[M.sup.1.sub.
(1-b)Mn.sub.b]O.sub.2 or (b) Li.sub.y[M.sup.1.sub.
(1-b)Mn.sub.b]O.sub.1.5+c where 0.ltoreq.y<1, 0<b<1 and 0<c<0.5 and M.sup.1 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that for (a) M.sup.1 is a metal element other than chromium.
The composition is in a form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium ion battery having the formula Li.sub.x[M.sup.1.sub.
(1-b)Mn.sub.b]O.sub.1.5+c where 0<x<1, 0<b<1 and 0<c<0.5 and M.sup.1 represents one or more metal elements, said composition characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li.sub.y[Li.sub.
(1-2x)/3 M.sup.2.sub.xMn.sub.
(2-x)/3]O.sub.1.5+x where 0<y<1, 0<x<0.5 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that the weighted average oxidation state of all M.sup.2 is 2 when in a fully uncharged state and 4 when in a fully charged state.
The cathode composition of claim 2 wherein said composition is characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li.sub.y+a[Li.sub.(1-2x)/3M.sup.2.sub.xMn.sub.
(2-x)/3]O.sub.1.5+x+y/2 where 0<a<(1-y), 0<y<(1-2x) and 0<x<0.5 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that the weighted average oxidation state of all M.sup.2 is 2 when in a fully uncharged state and 4 when in a fully charged state.
The cathode composition of claim 4 wherein said composition is characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium ion battery having the formula Li.sub.y[Li.sub.
(1-2x)/3 M.sup.2.sub.xMn.sub.
(2-x)/3]O.sub.1.5+x+y/2 where 0<y<(1-2x) and 0<x<0.5 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that the weighted average oxidation state of all M.sup.2 is 2 when in a fully uncharged state and 4 when in a fully charged state.
The cathode composition of claim 6 wherein said composition is characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition according to any one of claims 2-7 wherein M.sup.2 is nickel.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li.sub.y[Li.sub.(1-2x)/3M.sup.2.sub.xMn.sub.
(2-x)/3]O.sub.1.5+x/2 where 0<y<1 and 0<x<1 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that the weighted average oxidation state of all M is 3 when in a fully uncharged state and 4 when in a fully charged state.
The cathode composition of claim 9 wherein said composition is characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li.sub.y+a[Li.sub.(1-x)/3M.sup.2.sub.xMn.sub.
(2-2x)/3]O.sub.1.5+x/2+y/2 where 0<a<(1-y), 0<y<(1-x) and 0<x<1 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that the weighted average oxidation state of all M.sup.2 is 3 when in a fully uncharged state and 4 when in a fully charged state.
The cathode composition of claim 11 wherein said composition is characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li.sub.y[Li.sub.(1-x)/3M.sup.2.sub.xMn.sub.
(2-2x)/3]O.sub.1.5+x/2+y2 where 0<y<(1-x) and 0<x<1 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that the weighted average oxidation state of all M.sup.2 is 3 when in a fully uncharged state and 4 when in a fully charged state.
The cathode composition of claim 13 wherein said composition is characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition according to any one of claims 9-14 wherein M.sup.2 is selected from the group consisting of Co and Fe and combinations thereof.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li.sub.y[Li.sub.(1-x)/3M.sup.2.sub.xMn.sub.
(2-2x)/3]O.sub.1.5+1.5x where 0<y<1 and 0<x<0.33 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that the weighted average oxidation state of all M.sup.2 is 3 when in a fully uncharged state and 6 when in a fully charged state.
The cathode composition of claim 16 wherein said composition is characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li.sub.y+a[Li.sub.(1-x)/3M.sup.2.sub.xMn.sub.
(2-2x)/3]O.sub.1.5+1.5x-y/2 where 0<a<(1-y), 0<y<(1-3x) and 0<x<0.33 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that the weighted average oxidation state of all M.sup.2 is 3 when in a fully uncharged state and 6 when in a fully charged state.
The cathode composition of claim 18 wherein said composition is characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li.sub.y[Li.sub.(1-x)/3M.sup.2.sub.xMn.sub.
(2-2x)/3]O.sub.1.5+1.5x+y/2 where 0<y<(1-3x) and 0<x<0.33 and M.sup.2 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that the weighted average oxidation state of all M.sup.2 is 3 when in a fully uncharged state and 6when in a fully charged state.
The cathode composition of claim 20 wherein said composition is characterized as being in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30 C and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition according to any one of claims 16-21 wherein M.sup.2 is chromium.
A lithium-ion battery comprising the cathode composition of any of claims 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 11, 13, 16, 18, and 20.
Thin film battery and electrolyte therefor
A solid amorphous electrolyte composition for a thin-film battery.
The electrolyte composition includes a lithium phosphorus oxynitride material containing an aluminum ion dopant wherein the atomic ratio of aluminum ion to phosphorus ion (Al/P) in the electrolyte ranges greater than zero up to about 0.5.
The composition is represented by the formula: Li.sub.tP.sub.xAl.sub.yO.sub.uN.sub.vS.sub.w, where 5x+3y=5, 2u+3v+2w=5+t, t ranges from about 2.9 to about 3.3, x ranges from about 0.94 to about 0.85, y ranges from about 0.094 to about 0.26, u ranges from about 3.2 to about 3.8, v ranges from about 0.13 to about 0.46, and w ranges from zero to about 0.2.
Thin film batteries containing such electrolyte films have less tendency to fail prematurely.
A solid amorphous electrolyte composition for a thin-film battery comprising a lithium phosphorus oxynitride material containing an aluminum ion dopant, wherein the atomic ratio of aluminum ion to phosphorus ion (Al/P) in the electrolyte ranges from greater than zero up to about 0.5, and wherein the composition is represented by the formula: Li.sub.tP.sub.xAl.sub.yO.sub.uN.sub.vS.sub.w, where 5x+3y=5, 2u+3v+2w=5+t, t ranges from about 2.9 to about 3.3, x ranges from about 0.94 to about 0.85, y ranges from about 0.094 to about 0.26, u ranges from about 3.2 to about 3.8, v ranges from about 0.13 to about 0.46, and w ranges from zero to about 0.2.
The composition of claim 1 wherein the Al/P ratio ranges from about 0.10 to about 0.3.
The composition of claim 1 comprising from about 35 to about 50 atomic percent lithium ion.
The composition of claim 1 comprising from about 10 to about 12 atomic percent phosphorus ion.
The composition of claim 1 comprising from about 35 to about 50 atomic percent oxygen ion.
The composition of claim 1 wherein w is greater than zero.
A thin-film battery comprising the solid electrolyte of claim 1.
The thin-film battery of claim 7 comprising a cathode selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, and V.sub.2O.sub.5.
The thin-film battery of claim 8 including a cathode current collector comprising indium tin oxide.
A method for making a solid electrolyte for a thin-film battery comprising the steps of: providing a lithium orthophosphate (Li.sub.3PO.sub.4) composition; providing an aluminum ion source, and, optionally, a sulfide ion source; combining the lithium orthophosphate composition, aluminum ion source, and, optional sulfide ion source to yield a sputtering target; sputtering the target in a gas atmosphere selected from nitrogen gas, argon gas, and mixtures of nitrogen and argon gases to provide an electrolyte film having a composition represented by the formula: Li.sub.tP.sub.xAl.sub.yO.sub.uN.sub.vS.sub.w, where 5x+3y=5, 2u+3v+2w=5+t, t ranges from about 2.9 to about 3.3, x ranges from about 0.94 to about 0.85, y ranges from about 0.094 to about 0.26, u ranges from about 3.2 to about 3.8, v ranges from about 0.13 to about 0.46, and w ranges from zero to about 0.2, and wherein the ratio of aluminum ion to phosphorus ion (Al/P) ranges from greater than zero up to about 0.5.
The method of claim 10 wherein the Al/P ratio ranges from about 0.10 to about 0.3.
The method of claim 10 wherein the sputtering is conducted in pure nitrogen gas.
The method of claim 10 wherein the sputtering is conducted in pure argon gas.
The method of claim 10 wherein the sputtering is conducted in a mixture of nitrogen gas and argon gas.
The method of claim 10 wherein the sputtering is conducted over a thin-film battery cathode material selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, and V.sub.2O.sub.5.
The method of claim 10 wherein the aluminum ion source is selected from the group consisting of aluminum metal, aluminum nitride, and aluminum oxide.
A thin-film battery containing a solid electrolyte made by the method of claim 10.
The thin-film battery of claim 17 including a cathode current collector comprising indium tin oxide.
A method for making an aluminum-doped solid lithium phosphorus oxynitride electrolyte for a thin-film battery comprising the steps of: providing a lithium orthophosphate (Li.sub.3PO.sub.4) composition and an aluminum ion source as a sputtering target; sputtering the target in an atmosphere containing nitrogen gas and hydrogen sulfide gas wherein the mixture of nitrogen gas and hydrogen sulfide gas in the atmosphere is represented by the following: (1-z)N.sub.2+zH.sub.2S, where z is greater than 0 and less than 1 to provide an electrolyte film having a composition represented by the formula: Li.sub.tP.sub.xAl.sub.yO.sub.uN.sub.vS.sub.w, where 5x+3y=5, 2u+3v+2w=5+t, t ranges from about 2.9 to about 3.3, x ranges from about 0.94 to about 0.85, y ranges from about 0.094 to about 0.26, u ranges from about 3.2 to about 3.8, v ranges from about 0.13 to about 0.46, and w ranges from zero to about 0.2.
The method of claim 19 wherein the sputtering is conducted in a mixture of nitrogen gas and argon gas.
The method of claim 19 wherein the sputtering is conducted over a thin-film battery cathode material selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, and V.sub.2O.sub.5.
The method of claim 19 wherein the aluminum ion source is selected from the group consisting of aluminum metal, aluminum nitride, and aluminum oxide.
A thin-film battery containing a solid electrolyte made by the method of claim 19.
The thin-film battery of claim 23 including a cathode current collector comprising indium tin oxide.
Prevention of lithium deposition in nonaqueous electrolyte cells by  electrolyte-to-cathode weight ratio
The prevention of lithium clusters from bridging between the negative and positive portions of a cell during discharge is described.
This is done by limiting the amount of electrolyte in the cell, thereby eliminating excess electrolyte pooling above the cell stack.
It is in this excess electrolyte that a relatively higher Li.sup.+ ion concentration can occur, creating an anodically polarized region resulting in the reduction of lithium ions on the negative and positive surfaces as the concentration gradient is relaxed.
Typically, a lithium ion concentration gradient sufficient to cause lithium cluster formation is induced by the high rate, intermittent discharge of a lithium/silver vanadium oxide (Li/SVO) cell.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a casing comprising a container having a sidewall extending to an opening closed by a lid; b) an anode positioned inside the casing and comprising lithium supported on an anode current collector connected to the casing; c) a cathode of silver vanadium oxide supported on a cathode current collector connected to a positive terminal pin extending through an opening in the casing, wherein the positive terminal pin is electrically insulated from the casing; and d) an electrolyte activating the anode and the cathode, wherein the electrolyte and the silver vanadium oxide are present in the cell in an electrolyte-to-cathode weight ratio (E/C) of about 0.40, or less, such that the cell is dischargeable without lithium precipitating from the electrolyte in an amount sufficient to bridge a nominal distance between a negative polarity terminal including the anode current collector connected to the casing and positive portions including the cathode current collector and the terminal pin.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein there is virtually no free flowing electrolyte inside the cell after about 2% DoD.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the cell is dischargeable to deliver a pulse electrical current of a greater amplitude than that of a pre-pulse current or open circuit voltage immediately prior to the pulse.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the cell is dischargeable to deliver a pulse of electrical current of about 15 mA/cm.sup.2 to about 50 mA/cm.sup.2.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the cell is dischargeable to deliver a pulse train of one to four 5 to 20-second pulses of about 15 mA/cm.sup.2 to about 50 mA/cm.sup.2 with about a 2 to 30 second rest between each pulse.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the cathode active material is selected from the group consisting of silver vanadium oxide, copper silver vanadium oxide, V.sub.2O.sub.5, MnO.sub.2, LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, TiS.sub.2, Cu.sub.2S, FeS, FeS.sub.2, Ag.sub.2O, Ag.sub.2O.sub.2, CuF.sub.2, Ag.sub.2CrO.sub.4, copper oxide, copper vanadium oxide, and mixtures thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the anode is provided in a serpentine configuration with the cathode comprising cathode plates positioned between folds of a wind.
The electrochemical cell of claim 7 wherein there is a plurality of cathode plates having their current collectors connected to a manifold connected to the positive terminal pin.
An electrochemical call, which comprises: a) a casing comprising a container having a sidewall extending to an opening closed by a lid; b) an anode positioned inside the casing and comprising lithium supported on an anode current collector; c) a cathode of silver vanadium oxide supported on a cathode current collector, wherein one of the anode current collector and the cathode current collector is connected to the casing serving as the respective negative or positive polarity terminal and the other of the anode current collector and the cathode current collector is connected to a terminal pin extending through an opening in the casing and wherein the terminal pin in electrically insulated from the casing; and d) an electrolyte activating the anode and the cathode, wherein the electrolyte and the silver vanadium oxide are present in the cell in an electrolyte-to-cathode weight ratio (E/C) of about 0.40, or less, such that the cell is dischargeable without lithium precipitating from the electrolyte in an amount sufficient to bridge a nominal distance between the negative polarity anode and the positive polarity cathode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 9 where the E/C ratio is such that there is virtually no free flowing electrolyte inside the cell after about 2% DoD.
The electrochemical cell of claim 9 wherein the cell is dischargeable to deliver a pulse train of one to four 5 to 20-second pulses of about 15 mA/cm.sup.2 to about 50 mA/cm.sup.2 with about a 2 to 30 second rest between each pulse.
A method for powering an implantable medical device, comprising the steps of: a) providing a casing comprising a container having a sidewall extending to an opening closeable by a lid; b) positioning an anode inside the container, the anode comprising lithium supported on an anode current collector and connecting the anode to the container serving as the negative polarity terminal; c) positioning a cathode inside the casing, the cathode comprising silver vanadium oxide supported on a cathode current collector and connecting the cathode to a positive terminal pin extending through an opening in the casing, wherein the positive terminal pin is electrically insulated from the casing; d) closing the container with a lid and activating the anode and the cathode with an electrolyte; e) connecting the cell to the implantable medical device; and f) discharging the cell to power the implantable medical device, wherein the electrolyte is present in the casing in an electrolyte-to-cathode weight ratio (E/C) such that there is virtually no free-flowing electrolyte after discharging the cell to about 2% DoD, thereby preventing lithium from bridging a nominal distance between a negative polarity terminal including the anode current collector connected to the casing and positive polarity portions including the cathode current collector and the terminal pin.
The method of claim 12 including providing the cathode active material as silver vanadium oxide and the E/C ratio is about 0.40, or less.
The method of claim 12 including discharging cell to deliver a pulse train of one to four 5 to 20-second pulses of about 15 mA/cm.sup.2 to about 50 mA/cm.sup.2 with about a 2 to 30 second rest between each pulse.
The method of claim 12 including discharging the cell to power the implantable medical device selected from the group consisting of a cardiac pacemaker, a cardiac defibrillator, a drug pump, a neurostimulator, and a ventricular assist device.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a casing comprising a container having a sidewall extending to an opening closed by a lid; b) an anode positioned inside the casing and comprising lithium supported on an anode current collector connected to the casing; c) a cathode positioned inside the casing and comprising a cathode active material supported on a cathode current collector connected to a positive terminal pin extending through an opening in the casing, wherein the positive terminal pin is electrically insulated from the casing; and d) an electrolyte activating the anode and the cathode, wherein the electrolyte and the cathode active material are present in the cell in an electrolyte-to-cathode weight ratio (E/C) such that there is virtually no free flowing electrolyte inside the casing after about 2% DoD.
The electrochemical cell of claim 16 wherein the cathode active material is selected from the group consisting of silver vanadium oxide, copper silver vanadium oxide, V.sub.2O.sub.5, MnO.sub.2, LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, TiS.sub.2, Cu.sub.2S, FeS, FeS.sub.2, Ag.sub.2O, Ag.sub.2O.sub.2, CuF.sub.2, Ag.sub.2CrO.sub.4, copper oxide, copper vanadium oxide, and mixtures thereof.
An electrochemical cell, which comprises: a) a casing comprising a container having a sidewall extending to an opening closed by a lid; b) an anode positioned inside the casing and comprising lithium supported on an anode current collector connected to the casing; c) a cathode of silver vanadium oxide supported on a cathode current collector connected to a positive terminal pin extending through an opening in the casing, wherein the positive terminal pin is electrically insulated from the casing; and d) an electrolyte activating the anode and the cathode, wherein the electrolyte and the silver vanadium oxide are present in the cell in an electrolyte-to-cathode weight ratio (E/C) of about 0.46, or less, such that the cell is dischargeable without lithium precipitating from the electrolyte in an amount sufficient to bridge a nominal distance of about 0.05 inches to about 0.15 inches between a negative polarity terminal including the anode current collector connected to the casing and positive portions including the cathode current collector and the terminal pin.
An electrochemical call, which comprises: a) a casing comprising a container having a sidewall extending to an opening closed by a lid; b) an anode positioned inside the casing and comprising lithium supported on an anode current collector; c) a cathode positioned inside the casing and comprising a cathode active material supported on a cathode current collector, wherein one of the anode current collector and the cathode current collector is connected to the casing serving as the respective negative or positive polarity terminal and the other of the anode current collector and the cathode current collector is connected to a terminal pin extending through an opening in the casing and wherein the terminal pin in electrically insulated from the casing; and d) an electrolyte activating the anode and the cathode, wherein the electrolyte and the cathode active material are present in the cell in an electrolyte-to-cathode weight ratio (E/C) such that there is virtually no free flowing electrolyte inside the casing after about 2% DoD.
The electrochemical cell of claim 19 wherein the cathode active material is selected from the group consisting of silver vanadium oxide, copper silver vanadium oxide, V.sub.2O.sub.5, MnO.sub.2, LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, TiS.sub.2, Cu.sub.2S, FeS, FeS.sub.2, Ag.sub.2O, Ag.sub.2O.sub.2, CuF.sub.2, Ag.sub.2CrO.sub.4, copper oxide, copper vanadium oxide, and mixtures thereof.
A method for powering an implantable medical device, comprising the steps of: a) providing a casing comprising a container having a sidewall extending to an opening closeable by a lid; b) positioning an anode inside the container, the anode comprising lithium supported on an anode current collector and connecting the anode to the container serving as the negative polarity terminal; c) positioning a cathode inside the casing, the cathode comprising a cathode active material supported on a cathode current collector and connecting the cathode to a positive terminal pin extending through an opening in the casing, wherein the positive terminal pin is electrically insulated from the casing; d) closing the container with a lid and activating the anode and the cathode with an electrolyte; e) connecting the cell to the implantable medical device; and f) discharging the cell to power the implantable medical device, wherein the electrolyte is present in the casing in an electrolyte-to-cathode weight ratio (E/C) of about 0.46 such that there is virtually no free-flowing electrolyte after discharging the cell to about 30% DoD, thereby preventing lithium from bridging a nominal distance between a negative polarity terminal including the anode current collector connected to the casing and positive polarity portions including the cathode current collector and the terminal pin.
The method of claim 21 including selecting the cathode active material from the group consisting of silver vanadium oxide, copper silver vanadium oxide, V.sub.2O.sub.5, MnO.sub.2, LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, TiS.sub.2, Cu.sub.2S, FeS, FeS.sub.2, Ag.sub.2O, Ag.sub.2O.sub.2, CuF.sub.2, Ag.sub.2CrO.sub.4, copper oxide, copper vanadium oxide, and mixtures thereof.
A method for powering an implantable medical device, comprising the steps of: a) providing a casing comprising a container having a sidewall extending to an opening closeable by a lid; b) positioning an anode inside the container, the anode comprising lithium supported on an anode current collector and connecting the anode to the container serving as the negative polarity terminal; c) positioning a cathode inside the casing, the cathode comprising silver vanadium oxide supported on a cathode current collector and connecting the cathode to a positive terminal pin extending through an opening in the casing, wherein the positive terminal pin is electrically insulated from the casing; d) closing the container with a lid and activating the anode and the cathode with an electrolyte; e) connecting the cell to the implantable medical device; and f) discharging the cell to power the implantable medical device, wherein the electrolyte is present in the casing in an electrolyte-to-cathode weight ratio (E/C) of about 0.40, or less, such that discharging the cell does not result in lithium bridging a nominal distance between a negative polarity terminal including the anode current collector connected to the casing and positive polarity portions including the cathode current collector and the terminal pin.
The method of claim 23 including discharging cell to deliver a pulse train of one to four 5 to 20-second pulses of about 15 mA/cm.sup.2 to about 50 mA/cm.sup.2 with about a 2 to 30 second rest between each pulse.
Electrode for a lithium cell
This invention relates to a positive electrode for an electrochemical cell or battery, and to an electrochemical cell or battery; the invention relates more specifically to a positive electrode for a non-aqueous lithium cell or battery when the electrode is used therein.
The positive electrode includes a composite metal oxide containing AgV.sub.3O.sub.8 as one component and one or more other components consisting of LiV.sub.3O.sub.8, Ag.sub.2V.sub.4O.sub.11, MnO.sub.2, CF.sub.x, AgF or Ag.sub.2O to increase the energy density of the cell, optionally in the presence of silver powder and/or silver foil to assist in current collection at the electrode and to improve the power capability of the cell or battery.
A positive electrode for a non-aqueous lithium cell having electroactive material consisting of a composite metal oxide containing AgV.sub.3O.sub.8 as one component, and one or more additional components selected from the group consisting of LiV.sub.3O.sub.8, Ag.sub.2V.sub.4O.sub.11, MnO.sub.2, CF.sub.x, AgF or Ag.sub.2O.
The positive electrode of claim 1, wherein the additional components are selected from LiV.sub.3O.sub.8 and Ag.sub.2V.sub.4O.sub.11.
The positive electrode of claim 2, wherein the composite metal oxide is a solid solution of xAgV.sub.3O.sub.8.
(1-x)LiV.sub.3O.sub.8 or Ag.sub.xLi.sub.1-xV.sub.3O.sub.8.
The positive electrode of claim 3, wherein the composite metal oxide is Ag.sub.xLi.sub.1-xV.sub.3-yM.sub.yO.sub.8, in which 0<x<1 and 0<y<1.5, and in which M is one or more monovalent or multivalent transition metals.
The positive electrode of claim 4, wherein the M ions are selected from one or more of Ti, Y, Zr, Nb and Mo ions.
The positive electrode of claim 4 in which the electrode contains a current collector of silver powder or silver foil or both.
The positive electrode of claim 1 in which the electrode contains a silver powder or silver foil current collector.
A non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell comprising a negative electrode, an electrolyte and a positive electrode, the positive electrode having electroactive material consisting of a composite metal oxide containing AgV.sub.3O.sub.8 as one component, and one or more additional components selected from the group consisting of LiV.sub.3O.sub.8, Ag.sub.2V.sub.4O.sub.11, MnO.sub.2, CF.sub.x, AgF or Ag.sub.2O.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 8 in which the positive electrode contains a silver powder or silver foil current collector.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 8 in which the negative electrode is selected from metallic lithium, lithium alloys, lithium intermetallic compounds and lithiated carbon.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 8 in which the negative electrode is metallic lithium.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 8, wherein the cathode is selected from LiV.sub.3O.sub.8 and Ag.sub.2V.sub.4O.sub.11.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 8, wherein the composite metal oxide in a solid solution xAgV.sub.3O.sub.8.
(1-x)LiV.sub.3O.sub.8 or Ag.sub.xLi.sub.1-xV.sub.3O.sub.8.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 8, wherein the composite metal oxide is Ag.sub.xLi.sub.1-xV.sub.3-yM.sub.yO.sub.8, in which 0<x<1 and 0<y<1.5, and in which M is one or more monovalent or multivalent transition metals.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 14 in which the electrode contains a silver powder or silver foil current collector.
The positive electrode of claim 15 in which the electrode contains a current collector of silver powder or silver foil or both.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 8, wherein the M ions are selected from one or more of Ti, Y, Zr, Nb and Mo ions.
A non-aqueous lithium battery comprising a plurality of electrochemical cells, electrically connected, each cell comprising a negative electrode, an electrolyte and a positive electrode, the positive electrode having electroactive material consisting of a composite metal oxide containing AgV.sub.3O.sub.8 as one component, and one or more additional components selected from the group consisting of LiV.sub.3O.sub.8, Ag.sub.2V.sub.4O.sub.11, MnO.sub.2, CF.sub.x, AgF or Ag.sub.2O.
A non-aqueous lithium battery of claim 18, in which the positive electrode of each electrochemical cell contains a silver powder or silver foil current collector.
A non-aqueous lithium battery of claim 18, in which the negative electrode of each electrochemical cell is selected from metallic lithium, lithium alloys, lithium intermetallic compounds and lithiated carbon.
A non-aqueous lithium battery of claim 18, in which the negative electrode of each electrochemical cell is metallic lithium.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical battery of claim 18, wherein the cathode is selected from LiV.sub.3O.sub.8 and Ag.sub.2V.sub.4O.sub.11.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical battery of claim 18, wherein the composite metal oxide in a solid solution of xAgV.sub.3O.sub.8.
(1-x)LiV.sub.3O.sub.8 or Ag.sub.xLi.sub.1-xV.sub.3O.sub.8.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical battery of claim 18, wherein the composite metal oxide is Ag.sub.xLi.sub.1-xV.sub.3-yM.sub.yO.sub.8, in which 0<x<1 and 0<y<1.5, and in which M is one more monovalent or multivalent transition metals.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical battery of claim 24 in which the electrode contains a silver powder or silver foil current collector.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical battery of claim 18, wherein the M ions are selected from one or more of Ti, Y, Zr, Nb and Mo ions.
A non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell having electroactive material consisting of a negative electrode, an electrolyte and a positive electrode, the positive electrode comprising AgV.sub.3O.sub.8 as one component, and one or more additional components selected from the group consisting of LiV.sub.3O.sub.8, Ag.sub.2V.sub.4O.sub.11, MnO.sub.2, CF.sub.x, AgF or Ag.sub.2O.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 27, wherein the current collector is powder or foil.
A non-aqueous lithium battery comprising a plurality of electrochemical cells electrically connected, each cell comprising a negative electrode, an electrolyte and a positive electrode, the electroactive material consisting of a composite metal oxide containing AgV.sub.3O.sub.8 as one component, and one or more additional components selected from the group consisting of LiV.sub.3O.sub.8, Ag.sub.2V.sub.4O.sub.11, MnO.sub.2, CF.sub.x, AgF or Ag.sub.2O.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 29, wherein the current collector is powder or foil.
Cathode material for Li-ion battery applications
A family of Li-ion battery cathode materials and methods of synthesizing the materials.
The cathode material is a defective crystalline lithium transition metal phosphate of a specific chemical form.
The material can be synthesized in air, eliminating the need for a furnace having an inert gas atmosphere.
Excellent cycling behavior and charge/discharge rate capabilities are observed in batteries utilizing the cathode materials.
A method for forming a cathode material for a lithium-ion battery, comprising the steps of a) providing a crystalline lithium transition metal oxide, b) providing starting chemicals of Li:Fe:P:C in a molar ratio of 1:1:1:2, c) combining and milling the materials of a) and b) so as to form a mixture of the materials of a) and b) in particulate form, d) heating the material of step c) to form a cathode material having a defective crystalline structure of crystalline Li Fe.sub.(1-x)M.sub.xP.sub.
(1-x)O.sub.2(2-x) or Li.sub.(1-x/2)M.sub.xFe.sub.(1-x)P.sub.
(1-x)O.sub.2(2-x), wherein 0.01 .ltoreq.x .ltoreq.0.3, M is one or more elements selected from the group of metals consisting of nickel, titanium, vanadium, chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt and aluminum, and said heating is carried out in a vessel in air; and surfaces of the material facing the air are covered by a layer of inert blanket which is porous that allows air permeation and escaping gases caused by said heating.
The method of claim 1, wherein the starting chemicals of step b) include Fe.sub.2O.sub.3, Li.sub.2 CO.sub.3, H.sub.3 PO.sub.4, and C, Fe.sub.2 O.sub.3 +Li.sub.2 CO.sub.3 and H.sub.3 PO.sub.4 are provided in stoichiometric amounts, and C is provided in an amount exceeding a stoichiometric amount.
The method of claim 1, wherein in step d) the materials are heated to a temperature of between 550.degree.
C. and 650.degree.
C. for a period of between 8 and 12 hours.
The method of claim 1, wherein step b) further includes, forming and mixing a slurry of the starting chemicals, drying the slurry, heating the dried slurry to obtain a product suitable for milling in step c).
The method of claim 4, wherein the slurry is dried in air at about 150.degree.
C. for about 10 hours, and the dried slurry is heated at about 400.degree.
C. for about 5 hours.
The method of claim 1, wherein said crystalline lithium transition metal oxide has a general chemical formula of Li Ni.sub.(x)Mg.sub.
(1-x)O.sub.2 or Li.sub.
(1+x) Mn.sub.
(2-x)O.sub.4, wherein 0 .ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.2.
The method of claim 6, wherein said crystalline lithium transition metal oxide is Li Ni.sub.(0.92)Mg.sub.
(0.08)O.sub.2 or Li.sub.(1.07)Mn.sub.(1.93)O.sub.4.
The method of claim 1, wherein said blanket is a ceramic fiber blanket having a layer thickness of about 1-3 inches.
The method of claim 1, wherein in step d) the materials are heated to a temperature of about 600.degree.
C. for a period of about 10 hours.
The method of claim 1, wherein the mixture of step c) contains 1-5 wt % of the crystalline lithium transition metal oxide.
Multi-phase, silicon-containing electrode for a lithium-ion battery
An electrode composition for a lithium-ion battery comprising particles having an average particle size ranging from 1 .mu.m to 50 .mu.m.
The particles include an electrochemically active phase and an electrochemically inactive phase that share a common phase boundary.
The electrochemically active phase includes elemental silicon and the electrochemically inactive phase includes at least two metal elements in the form of an intermetallic compound, a solid solution, or combination thereof.
Each of the phases is free of crystallites that are greater than 1000 angstroms prior to cycling.
In addition, the electrochemically active phase is amorphous after the electrode has been cycled through one full charge-discharge cycle in a lithium-ion battery.
An electrode composition comprising particles having an average particle size ranging from 1 .mu.m to 50 .mu.m, said particles comprising an amorphous electrochemically active phase and an electrochemically inactive phase that share at least one common phase boundary, said electrochemically active phase comprising elemental silicon and said electrochemically inactive phase comprising at least two metal elements in the form of an intermetallic compound, a solid solution, or combination thereof, wherein one of the metal elements in said electrochemically inactive phase is aluminum.
An electrode composition according to claim 1, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase further comprises silicon.
An electrode composition according to claim 1, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase comprises at least one metal element selected from the group consisting of iron, nickel, manganese, cobalt, copper, silver, and chromium.
An electrode composition according to claim 3, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase further comprises silicon.
An electrode composition according to claim 1, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase comprises silicon, aluminum, and iron.
An electrode composition according to claim 1, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase comprises aluminum and copper.
A lithium-ion battery comprising: (a) an anode comprising particles having an average particle size ranging from 1 .mu.m to 50 .mu.m, said particles comprising an amorphous electrochemically active phase and an electrochemically inactive phase that share at least one common phase boundary, said electrochemically active phase comprising elemental silicon and said electrochemically inactive phase comprising at least two metal elements in the form of an intermetallic compound, a solid solution, or combination thereof, wherein one of the metal elements in said electrochemically inactive phase is aluminum; (b) a cathode; and (c) an electrolyte separating the anode and the cathode.
A battery according to claim 7, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase further comprises silicon.
A battery according to claim 7, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase comprises at least one metal elements selected from the group consisting of iron, nickel, manganese, cobalt, copper, silver, and chromium.
A battery according to claim 9, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase further comprises silicon.
A battery according to claim 7, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase comprises silicon, aluminum, and iron.
A battery according to claim 7, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase comprises aluminum and copper.
A method for preparing an electrode composition for a lithium-ion battery comprising: (a) melting together elemental silicon and two or more additional metal elements in an inert atmosphere to form an ingot; (b) melting the ingot in an inert atmosphere to form a molten stream; (c) rapidly quenching the molten stream on the surface of a rotating wheel to form a ribbon; (d) pulverizing the ribbon to form particles having an average particle size ranging from 1 .mu.m to about 50 .mu.m, (e) coating the particles onto a current collector to form an electrode; (f) incorporating the electrode into a lithium-ion battery: and (g) cycling the battery at least one time through at least one charge-discharge cycles at a voltage greater than 50mV vs. Li/Li.sup.+, wherein said particles, after cycling, comprising an amorphous electrochemically active phase and an electrochemically inactive phase that share at least one common phase boundary, said electrochemically active phase comprising elemental silicon and said electrochemically inactive phase comprising at least two metal elements in the form of an intermetallic compound, a solid solution, or combination thereof, wherein one of the metal elements in said electrochemically inactive phase is aluminum.
A method according to claim 13, wherein said electrochemically inactive phase further comprises silicon.
A method according to claim 13, wherein the metal elements are selected from the group consisting of aluminum, iron, nickel, manganese, cobalt, copper, silver, and chromium.
An electrode composition comprising particles having an average particle size ranging from 1 .mu.m to 50 .mu.m, said particles comprising an amorphous electrochemically active phase and an electrochemically inactive phase that share at least one common phase boundary, said electrochemically active phase comprising elemental silicon and said electrochemically inactive phase comprising at least two metal elements in the form of an intermetallic compound, a solid solution, or combination thereof, wherein an electrically conductive layer at least partially covers the particles, and wherein one of the metal elements in said electrochemically inactive phase is aluminum.
An electrode composition made according to the method of claim 13.
The electrode composition according to claim 17 wherein the electrochemically inactive phase further comprises silicon.
The electrode composition according to claim 17 wherein the metal elements are selected from the group consisting of aluminum, iron, nickel, manganese, cobalt, copper, silver, and chromium.
Reticulated and controlled porosity battery structures
The effective ionic conductivity in a composite structure is believed to decrease rapidly with volume fraction.
A system, such as a bipolar device or energy storage device, has structures or components in which the diffusion length or path that electrodes or ions must traverse is minimized and the interfacial area exposed to the ions or electrons is maximized.
The device includes components that can be reticulated or has a reticulated interface so that an interface area can be increased.
The increased interfacial perimeter increases the available sites for reaction of ionic species.
Many different reticulation patterns can be used.
The aspect ratio of the reticulated features can be varied.
Such bipolar devices can be fabricated by a variety of methods or procedures.
A bipolar device having structures of reticulated interface can be tailored for the purposes of controlling and optimizing charge and discharge kinetics.
A bipolar device having graded porosity structures can have improved transport properties because the diffusion controlling reaction kinetics can be modified.
Graded porosity electrodes can be linearly or nonlinearly graded.
A bipolar device having perforated structures also provides improved transport properties by removing tortuosity and reducing diffusion distance.
A bipolar device comprising: first and second substantially planar substrates; a first electrode having a substantially planar base disposed on the first substrate, and a first surface for positioning proximate to an opposing, second electrode disposed on the second substrate, the first electrode being reticulated so as to define a plurality of protrusions and intervening indentations providing a surface area at least 1.5 times the theoretical surface area of a smooth non-reticulating surface, wherein the protrusions of the first electrode have a length l, as measured from the substantially planar base to the first surface, and a cross-sectional thickness a, and the protrusions extend in a direction away from the base of the first electrode and towards the base of the second electrode, wherein the cross-sectional thickness a of the protrusions of the first electrode varies along the length l of the protrusions of the first electrode such that the cross-sectional thickness, when averaged along the length of the protrusions, is less than about 100 microns, wherein the second electrode has a substantially planar base disposed on the second substrate, and a second surface for positioning proximate to the opposing, first electrode disposed on the first surface, the second electrode being reticulated so as to define a plurality of protrusions and intervening indentations, the protrusions having a length m, as measured from the substantially planar base to the second surface, the protrusions extending in a direction away from the base of the second electrode and towards the base of the first electrode such that the first and second reticulating electrodes are interpenetrating, and wherein each protrusion consists essentially of electrode material and includes a first end connected to the base of its respective electrode, and a second end extending away from the base toward the base of the other electrode, wherein each respective base connects each protrusion of its respective electrode to each adjacent protrusion of the electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the protrusions are positioned periodically, aperiodically, or randomly on the first reticulating surface.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the first surface has a surface area that is at least 2 times the theoretical area of a smooth, non-reticulated configuration.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the first surface has a surface area that is at least 2.5 times the theoretical area of a smooth, non-reticulating configuration.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the first surface has a surface area that is at least 3 times the theoretical area of a smooth, non-reticulating configuration.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the first surface has a surface area that is at least 4 times the theoretical area of a smooth, non-reticulating configuration.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the first surface has a surface area that is at least 5 times the theoretical area of a smooth, non-reticulating configuration.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the cross-sectional width a of the protrusion increases at cross-sections approaching the base of the first electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein a cross-sectional area of the protrusion at a first position near to the base of the first electrode is greater than a cross-sectional area of the protrusion at a second position that is farther from the base.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the opposing electrode is reticulated so as to define a plurality of protrusions and intervening indentations providing a surface area at least 1.5 times the theoretical surface area of a smooth non-reticulating surface, wherein the protrusions have a cross-sectional thickness b.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the opposing electrode is reticulated so as to define a plurality of protrusions and intervening indentations providing a surface area at least 1.5 times the theoretical surface area of a smooth non-reticulating surface, wherein the protrusions have a cross-sectional thickness b and wherein the cross-sectional thickness b varies along the length m of the protrusion.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the second surface has a surface area at least 2 times the theoretical surface area of a smooth non-reticulating surface.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the second surface has a surface area at least 2.5 times the theoretical surface area of a smooth non-reticulating surface.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the second surface has a surface area at least 3 times the theoretical surface area of a smooth non-reticulating surface.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the second surface has a surface area at least 3.5 times the theoretical surface area of a smooth non-reticulating surface.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the second surface has a surface area at least 4 times the theoretical surface area of a smooth non-reticulating surface.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the second surface has a surface area at least 5 times the theoretical surface area of a smooth non-reticulating surface.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the protrusions of the second reticulating surface are positioned periodically, aperiodically or randomly.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the cross-sectional width b of the protrusion increases at cross-sections approaching the base of the opposing electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein a cross-sectional area of the protrusion at a first position near to the base of the first electrode is greater than a cross-sectional area of the protrusion at a second position that is farther from the base.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the cross-sectional area of the protrusions of the second reticulating surface increases at cross-sections approaching the base of the opposing electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 11, wherein the second reticulating surface of the opposing electrode is complementary to the first reticulating surface of the first electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 22, wherein the average distance between complementary reticulating surfaces is less than 100 microns.
The bipolar device of claim 22, wherein the average distance between complementary reticulating surfaces is less than 50 microns.
The bipolar device of claim 22 wherein the average distance between complementary reticulating surfaces is less than 25 microns.
The bipolar device of claim 22, wherein the average distance between complementary reticulating surfaces is less than 10 microns.
The bipolar device of claim 11, further comprising an electrolyte positioned between the complementary first and second reticulating surfaces.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the first electrode is porous.
The bipolar device of claim 28, wherein the opposing electrode is porous.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the protrusions are positioned aperiodically on the first reticulating surface.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the first electrode is porous, the first electrode having an average porosity of from about 10% to about 70%.
The bipolar device of claim 31, wherein the first electrode has an average porosity of from about 20% to about 50%.
The bipolar device of claim 31, wherein the first electrode has an average porosity of from about 30% to about 45%.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein l/a is greater than 2.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the thickness and the width of each protrusion are each a.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first substrate and the second substrate is a current collector.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the distance between the first surface of the first electrode closest towards the base of the second electrode, and the substantially planar base of the first electrode, as measured in a direction perpendicular to the base of the first electrode, varies between 0 and l, and wherein the distance between the second surface of the second electrode closest towards the base of the first electrode, and the substantially planar base of the second electrode, as measured in a direction perpendicular to the base of the second electrode, varies between 0 and m. 38.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the bipolar device is an energy storage device.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the bipolar device is a battery.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the bipolar device is a rechargeable battery.
The bipolar device of claim 1, wherein the bipolar device is a lithium ion battery.
A bipolar device comprising a first reticulated electrode comprising a first electrode base portion and a plurality of first electrode protrusions each having a proximal end by which each first electrode protrusion is connected to the first electrode base portion, and each extending from the first electrode base portion in a direction substantially perpendicular to the first electrode base portion toward a distal first protrusion end, the first electrode protrusions defining a series of first electrode indentations intervening the first electrode protrusions; a second, opposing reticulated electrode comprising a second electrode base portion and a plurality of second electrode protrusions each having a proximal end by which each second electrode protrusion is connected to the second electrode base portion, and each extending from the second electrode base portion toward the first electrode base portion in a direction substantially perpendicular to the second electrode base portion toward a distal second protrusion end, the second electrode protrusions defining a series of second electrode indentations intervening the second electrode protrusions; wherein the first electrode and second electrode are positioned in non-contacting, opposing relation to each other with the first electrode protrusions in interdigitating relation with the second electrode protrusions, with the first electrode protrusions in the second electrode indentations and the second electrode protrusions in the first electrode indentations; and wherein each of the first and second electrode protrusions consists essentially of electrode material and has a length, as measured from the respective electrode base portion to each distal protrusion end, and a cross-sectional thickness, such that the cross-sectional thickness, when averaged along the length of each protrusion, is less than about 100 microns.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the bipolar device is an energy storage device.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the first electrode protrusions have a cross-sectional width that increases at cross-sections approaching the base portion of the first electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein a cross-sectional area of a first electrode protrusion at a first position near to the base portion of the first electrode is greater than a cross-sectional area of the first electrode protrusion at a second position that is farther from the base portion of the first electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein a cross-sectional area of a second electrode protrusion at a first position near to the base portion of the second electrode is greater than a cross-sectional area of the second electrode protrusion at a second position that is farther from the base portion of the second electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the second electrode protrusions have a cross-sectional width that increases at cross-sections approaching the base portion of the second electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the average distance between the first electrode and the second electrode is less than 100 microns.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein t the average distance between the first electrode and the second electrode is less than 50 microns.
The bipolar device of claim 42 wherein the average distance between the first electrode and the second electrode is less than 25 microns.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the average distance between the first electrode and the second electrode is less than 10 microns.
The bipolar device of claim 42, further comprising an electrolyte positioned between the first electrode and the second electrode.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the first electrode is porous.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the second electrode is porous.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the first electrode is porous, the first electrode having an average porosity of from about 10% to about 70%.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the first electrode has an average porosity of from about 20% to about 50%.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the first electrode has an average porosity of from about 30% to about 45%.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the bipolar device is a battery.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the bipolar device is a rechargeable battery.
The bipolar device of claim 42, wherein the bipolar device is a lithium ion battery.
Lithium-ion cell with a wide operating temperature range
A lithium-ion rechargeable cell is described which contains an electrolyte comprising a pyrazolium cation, an imidazolium cation, or a combination thereof, as well as lithium ion, and at least one non-Lewis acid derived counter-ion.
Electrochemical cells containing an anode, a cathode, and the ionic liquid electrolytes preferably have effective charge/discharge capacity and charging efficiency at low temperatures and at high temperatures.
An electrochemical cell comprising an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte, said electrolyte comprising at least one pyrazolium cation, an imidazolium cation, or a combination thereof; and at least one non-Lewis acid derived counter ion, wherein said electrochemical cell has a consistent charge and discharge cycling in a temperature range of from about 20.degree.
C. to about 170.degree.
C., wherein said counter ion comprises an imide, BETI, methide, TF or any combination thereof, and forms a lithium salt selected from Liimide, LiBETI, Limethide or LiTF or a combination thereof, and wherein said electrochemical cell is rechargeable, wherein said cathode has a cathode capacity and said anode has an anode capacity, and wherein said cathode capacity is greater than said anode capacity.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte comprises a binary salt mixture comprising a mixture of single salts, at least one of which contains said pyrazolium cation or an imidazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2, wherein said binary salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said imidazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3, wherein said second cation is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBETI, Liimide, Limethide, or LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3, wherein said imidazolium cation and said second cation are each in the form of a salt and the two salts are different.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3, wherein said imidazolium cation and said second cation are both in the form of a salt and at least one of the two salts comprises DMIBETI, EMIBETI, DMIimide, EMImide DMImethide, EMImethide, DMITF, or EMITF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2, wherein said binary salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 7, wherein said second cation is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBETI, Liimide, Limethide, or LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 7, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are each in the form of a salt and the two salts are different.
The electrochemical cell of claim 7, wherein said pyrazolium cation and said second cation are both in the form of a salt and at least one of the two salts comprises DMPBETI, EMPBETI, DMPimide, EMPimide DMPmethide, EMPmethide, DMPTF, or EMPTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte comprises a ternary salt mixture comprising a mixture of three single salts, at least one of which contains said pyrazolium cation or said imidazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 11, wherein said ternary salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said imidazolium cation, and a third cation which differs from said imidazolium cation and said second cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 12, wherein at least one of said second and third cations is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBETI, Liimide, Limethide, LiTF, or a combination thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 12, wherein said imidazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and one of the anions of the three salts is different from the other two.
The electrochemical cell of claim 12, wherein said imidazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and the anions of the three salts are the same.
The electrochemical cell of claim 11, wherein said pyrazolium cation or said imidazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and at least one of the three salts comprises DMPBETI, DMIBETI, EMPBETI, EMIBETI, DMPimide, EMPimide, DMIimide, EMImide, DMPmethide, DMImethide, EMPmethide, EMImethide, DMPTF, DMITF, EMPTF, or EMITF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 14, wherein said imidazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and at least one of the three salts comprises DMPBETI, DMIBETI, EMPBETI, EMIBETI, DMPimide, DMIimide, EMPimide, EMImide, DMPmethide, DMImethide, EMPmethide, EMImethide, DMPTF, DMITF, EMPTF, or EMITF and another one of the three salts comprises LiBETI, Liimide, Limethide or LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said pyrazolium cation, said imidazolium cation, or a combination thereof is present as a pyrazolium salt, an imidazolium salt, or a pyrazolium and imidazolium salts, together with dissolved lithium salts, which are distributed throughout a polymer matrix.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said anode comprises a lithium intercalated electrode material.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said anode comprises Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said cathode comprises Li.sub.xMn.sub.2O.sub.4; Li.sub.xCoO.sub.2, modified Li.sub.xMn.sub.2O.sub.4 electrodes; Li.sub.xMn.sub.2-xCu.sub.xO.sub.4, wherein 0.1<x<0.5; LiMo.sub.0.02Mn.sub.1.98O.sub.4, wherein M is selected from B, Cr, Fe, and Ti: a transition metal oxide; or an electrochemically active conductive polymer.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said cathode is LiCoO.sub.2, or LiFePO.sub.4.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrochemical cell has a ratio of cathode capacity to anode capacity of 2 or greater.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said cation has the formula: ##STR00004## wherein R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 represent independently an alkyl group comprising 1-12 carbon atoms, and R.sub.3, R.sub.4, and R.sub.5 represent independently, H or an alkyl group comprising from 1 to about 5 carbon atoms.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said non-Lewis acid derived counterion is: ##STR00005## where R.sub.6, R.sub.7, R.sub.8 and R.sub.10 are separate halogenated alkyl groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and R.sub.9 is a halogenated alkylene moiety of 2 to 6 carbon atoms.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said cathode is LiCoO.sub.2 or LiFePO.sub.4 and said anode is Li intercalated electrode material.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein for said consistent charge and discharge cycling said electrochemical cell has no more than a 2.3% capacity loss after 12 continuous cycles at 133.degree.
C. 28.
An electrochemical cell comprising an anode, a cathode, and electrolyte wherein said cell has a ratio of cathode capacity to anode capacity of 2 or greater, wherein the electrolyte comprises an imidazolium or pyrazolium cation and a non-Lewis acid derived anion.
The electrochemical cell of claim 28, wherein said ratio is greater than 2.2.
The electrochemical cell of claim 28, wherein said ratio is greater than 2.5.
The electrochemical cell of claim 28, wherein said ratio is from 2 to 3.
The electrochemical cell of claim 28, wherein said anode and said cathode have equal electrode area.
Rechargeable lithium-ion cell with triphenylamine redox shuttle
Provided is a rechargeable lithium-ion cell that contains a positive electrode, a negative electrode, a charge-carrying electrolyte containing a charge carrying medium and a lithium salt, and a triphenylamine compound dissolved in or dissolvable in the electrolyte.
The triphenylamine compound has an oxidation potential above the positive electrode recharged potential and serves as a cyclable redox chemical shuttle providing cell overcharge protection.
Also provided are methods for manufacturing a rechargeable lithium-ion cell.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell comprising: (a) a positive electrode having a recharged potential; (b) a negative electrode; (c) a charge-carrying electrolyte comprising a charge carrying medium and a lithium salt; and (d) a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising a fluorine-containing triphenylamine compound; wherein the chemical shuttle is dissolved in the electrolyte and has an oxidation potential above the recharged potential of the positive electrode, and wherein the triphenylamine compound is substituted with one or more halogen or trihaloalkyl substituents on at least two of the aromatic rings.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the one or more halogen substituents are selected from fluoro, chloro, and bromo.
A cell according to claim 2 wherein each phenyl ring is substituted with an equal number of the same halogen.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the negative electrode comprises graphitic carbon, lithium metal, or a lithium alloy compound.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the cyclable redox chemical shuttle has the chemical formula: ##STR00021## wherein each R.sub.1 is independently H, F, Cl, Br or haloalkyl and each R.sub.2 is independently H, F, Cl, Br, alkyl, or haloalkyl.
The cell of claim 5 wherein R.sub.1 or R.sub.2 independently comprise F or haloalkyl and wherein the haloalkyl is a trifluoroalkyl group.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the triphenylamine compound comprises tris(4-fluorophenyl)amine, tris(4-trifluoromethylphenyl)amine, tris(2,4,6-trifluorophenyl)amine, tris(4-methyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)amine, tris(2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)amine, tris(2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorophenyl)amine, tris(4-trifluoromethyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)amine, tris(2,6-difluoro-4-bromophenyl)amine, or mixtures thereof.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical shuttle is comprised of the fluorine-containing triphenylamine compound and at least one compound selected from tris(4-bromophenyl)amine, tris(4-fluorophenyl)amine, tris(4-trifluoromethylphenyl)amine, tris(2,4,6-trifluorophenyl)amine, tris(4-methyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)amine, tris(2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)amine, tris(2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorophenyl)amine, tris(4-trifluoromethyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)amine, tris(2,6-difluoro-4-bromophenyl)amine, tris(2,4,6-tribromophenyl)amine, tris(2,4,6-trichlorophenyl)amine, or a mixture thereof.
The cell of claim 1 wherein the charge carrying medium comprises a cosolvent.
A cell according to claim 9 wherein the cosolvent comprises ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, ethylmethyl carbonate, fluoroethylene carbonate, vinylene carbonate, vinylethylene carbonate, or a combination thereof.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the triphenylamine compound has an oxidation potential from about 0.1 V to about 2.0 V above the recharged potential of the positive electrode.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the triphenylamine compound has an oxidation potential from about 0.3 to about 0.6 V above the recharged potential of the positive electrode.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the triphenylamine compound provides overcharge protection after at least 25 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the triphenylamine compound and at an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the cell capacity during each cycle.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the triphenylamine compound provides overcharge protection after at least 40 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the triphenylamine compound and at an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the cell capacity during each cycle.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the triphenylamine compound has a calculated binding energy to an ethyl radical, E.sub.b(ER), of less than or equal to 1.8 eV.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell comprising: (a) a positive electrode having a recharged potential; (b) a negative electrode comprising graphitic carbon, lithium metal, or a lithium alloy compound; and (c) a charge-carrying electrolyte comprising: (i) a charge-carrying media comprising ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, ethylmethyl carbonate, fluoroethylene carbonate, vinylene carbonate, vinylethylene carbonate, or a combination thereof; (ii) a lithium salt comprising LiPF.sub.6, lithium bis(oxalato)borate, LiN(SO.sub.2CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiN(SO.sub.2C.sub.2F.sub.5).sub.2, LiC(SO.sub.2CF.sub.3).sub.3, or a combination thereof; and (iii) a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising a fluorine-containing triphenylamine compound; wherein the positive electrode comprises LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.2FeSiO.sub.4, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiMnPO.sub.4, Li.sub.xMnO.sub.2 (where x is about 0.3 to about 0.4), MnO.sub.2, LiVOPO.sub.4, Li.sub.3V.sub.2(PO.sub.4).sub.3, LiV.sub.3O.sub.8, or LiVO(PO.sub.4)F; wherein the triphenylamine compound is substituted with one or more halogen or trihaloalkyl substituents on at least two of the aromatic rings; and wherein the chemical shuttle is dissolved in the electrolyte and has an oxidation potential above the recharged potential of the positive electrode.
A cell according to claim 16 wherein the triphenylamine compound comprises, tris(4-fluorophenyl)amine, tris(4-trifluoromethylphenyl)amine, tris(2,4,6-trifluorophenyl)amine, tris(4-methyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)amine, tris(2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)amine, tris(2,3,4,5,6-pentafluorophenyl)amine, tris(4-trifluoromethyl-2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl)amine, tris(2,6-difluoro-4-bromophenyl)amine, or mixtures thereof.
Cathode material for Li-ion battery applications
A family of Li-ion battery cathode materials and methods of synthesizing the materials.
The cathode material is a defective crystalline lithium transition metal phosphate of a specific chemical form.
The material can be synthesized in air, eliminating the need for a furnace having an inert gas atmosphere.
Excellent cycling behavior and charge/discharge rate capabilities are observed in batteries utilizing the cathode materials.
A family of cathode materials for a lithium-ion battery, comprising substantially a defective structured crystalline lithium transition metal oxide in the form of LiFe.sub.(1-x)M.sub.xP.sub.
(1-x)O.sub.2(2-x), wherein 0.01.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.3, M is one or more elements selected from the group of transition metals consisting of nickel, titanium, vanadium, chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt and aluminum, and the defective structured crystalline lithium transition metal oxide has vacancies.
The family of cathode materials for a lithium-ion battery of claim 1, wherein M further includes one or more elements selected from the group having divalent cations consisting of magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium and zinc.
The family of cathode materials for a lithium-ion battery of claim 2, further comprising incompletely reacted layer structure or spinel structure material.
The family of cathode materials for a lithium-ion battery of claim 1, further comprising incompletely reacted layer structure or spinel structure material.
Substituted phenothiazine redox shuttles for rechargeable lithium-ion cell
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell contains a positive electrode, negative electrode, charge-carrying electrolyte containing charge carrying medium and lithium salt, and an N-substituted or C-substituted phenothiazine compound dissolved in or dissolvable in the electrolyte.
The substituted phenothiazine compound has an oxidation potential above the positive electrode recharged potential and serves as a cyclable redox chemical shuttle providing cell overcharge protection.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell comprising: (a) a positive electrode having a recharged potential and comprising LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.2FeSiO.sub.4, Li.sub.xMnO.sub.2 (where x is about 0.3 to about 0.4), or MnO.sub.2; (b) a negative electrode; (c) a charge-carrying electrolyte comprising a charge carrying medium comprising a charge carrying medium that includes an organic carbonate and a lithium salt; and (d) a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising 10-methyl-phenothiazine, 10-ethyl-phenothiazine, 3-chloro-10-ethyl-phenothiazine, 10-isopropyl-phenothiazine, 2-perfluoromethyl-phenothiazine, 10-acetyl-phenothiazine 2-cyano-10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 2-methoxy-10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 2-perfluoromethyl-10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 10-perfluoromethyl-phenothiazine, 10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 10-(1,1,1,2,3,3)-hexafluoropropyl-phenothiazine, or mixtures thereof, wherein the recharged potential is the potential at which the positive electrode becomes delithiated during the first charge cycle to a lithium level corresponding to at least 90% of the available recharged cell capacity.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical redox shuttle is substituted at its nitrogen atom.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical redox shuttle is substituted at one or more ring carbon atoms.
A cell according to claim 3 wherein the chemical redox shuttle is 2-perfluoromethyl-phenothiazine.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical redox shuttle is substituted with one or more alkyl groups containing 1 to about 4 carbon atoms.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical redox shuttle comprises 10-methyl-phenothiazine, 10-ethyl-phenothiazine, 3-chloro-10-ethyl-phenothiazine, 10-isopropyl-phenothiazine, 10-acetyl-phenothiazine, or mixtures thereof.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical redox shuttle comprises 2-cyano-10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 2-methoxy-10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 2-perfluoromethyl-10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 10-perfluoromethyl-phenothiazine, 10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 10-(1,1,1,2,3,3)-hexafluoropropyl-phenothiazine, or mixtures thereof.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the cyclable redox chemical shuttle is present in the electrolyte in an amount of from 0.1M to about 0.3M.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the electrolyte comprises a cosolvent.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical redox shuttle has an oxidation potential from about 0.3 V to about 5 V above the recharged potential of the positive electrode.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical redox shuttle has an oxidation potential from about 0.3 to about 0.6 V above the recharged potential of the positive electrode.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical redox shuttle provides overcharge protection after at least 30 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the phenothiazine compound and at an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the cell capacity during each cycle.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the chemical redox shuttle provides overcharge protection after at least 80 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the phenothiazine compound and at an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the cell capacity during each cycle.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the negative electrode comprises graphitic carbon, lithium metal, or a lithium alloy.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the charge carrying medium comprises ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, or combinations thereof.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell comprising: (a) a positive electrode having a recharged potential and comprising LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.2FeSiO.sub.4, Li.sub.xMnO.sub.2 (where x is about 0.3 to about 0.4) or MnO.sub.2; (b) a negative electrode comprising graphitic carbon, lithium metal or a lithium alloy; and (c) a charge-carrying electrolyte comprising: (i) a charge-carrying media comprising ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate or combination thereof; (ii) a lithium salt comprising LiPF.sub.6, lithium bis(oxalato)borate, or combination thereof; and (iii) a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising 10-methyl-phenothiazine, 10-ethyl-phenothiazine, 3-chloro-10-ethyl-phenothiazine, 10-acetyl-phenothiazine, or mixtures thereof dissolved in the electrolyte and having an oxidation potential above the recharged potential of the positive electrode.
A method for manufacturing a rechargeable lithium-ion sealed cell comprising the steps of assembling in any order and enclosing in a suitable case: (a) a positive electrode having a recharged potential and comprising LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.2FeSiO.sub.4, Li.sub.xMnO.sub.2 (where x is about 0.3 to about 0.4), or MnO.sub.2; (b) a negative electrode; (c) a charge-carrying electrolyte comprising charge carrying medium and lithium salt; and (d) a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising 10-methyl-phenothiazine, 10-ethyl-phenothiazine, 3-chloro-10-ethyl-phenothiazine, 10-isopropyl-phenothiazine, 2-perfluoromethyl-phenothiazine, 10-acetyl-phenothiazine 2-cyano-10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 2-methoxy-10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 2-perfluoromethyl-10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 10-perfluoromethyl-phenothiazine, 10-perfluoromethylsulfonyl-phenothiazine, 10-(1,1,1,2,3,3)-hexafluoropropyl-phenothiazine, or mixtures thereof, wherein the recharged potential is the potential at which the positive electrode becomes delithiated during the first charge cycle to a lithium level corresponding to at least 90% of the available recharged cell capacity.
N-oxide redox shuttles for rechargeable lithium-ion cell
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell contains a positive electrode, negative electrode, charge-carrying electrolyte containing charge carrying medium and lithium salt, and cycloaliphatic N-oxide compound dissolved in or dissolvable in the electrolyte.
The N-oxide compound has an oxidation potential above the positive electrode recharged potential and serves as a cyclable redox chemical shuttle providing cell overcharge protection.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell comprising: (a) a positive electrode having a recharged potential; (b) a negative electrode; (c) a charge-carrying electrolyte comprising a charge carrying medium and a lithium salt; and (d) a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising a cycloaliphatic N-oxide compound dissolved in the electrolyte and having an oxidation potential above the recharged potential of the positive electrode, wherein the positive electrode is selected from LiCoPO.sub.4, LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.2FeS.sub.2, Li.sub.2FeSiO.sub.4, LiMnPO.sub.4, LiNiPO.sub.4, LiVOPO.sub.4F, Li.sub.3V.sub.2(PO.sub.4).sub.3, and combinations thereof.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the N-oxide compound comprises a piperidinyl or pyrrolidinyl ring.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the N-oxide compound is substituted at one or more ring positions with one or more alkyl groups containing 1 to about 4 carbon atoms.
A cell according to claim 3 wherein the N-oxide compound has one or more alkyl groups attached to ring carbon atoms alpha- to the N-oxide compound ring nitrogen atom.
A cell according to claim 4 wherein the N-oxide compound has alkyl groups attached to all ring carbon atoms alpha- to the N-oxide compound ring nitrogen atom.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the N-oxide compound is substituted at one or more ring positions with one or more acyl, acyloxy, alkaryl, alkoxy, acetamido, amido, amino, aryl, aralkyl, alkyl carboxyl, aryl carboxyl, alkylsulfonyl, benzoyl, carbamoyl, carbamido, carboxy, cyano, formyl, halo, haloacetamido, haloacyl, haloalkylsulfonyl, haloaryl, hydroxyl, isothiocyanato, methylsulfonyloxyl, nitro, oxo, oxybenzoyl or phosphenoxy groups or combination thereof.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the cycloaliphatic N-oxide compound comprises a 3-, 4- or 5-substituted-2,2,6,6-tetraalkyl-1-piperidinyl N-oxide or a 3- or 4-substituted-2,2,5,5-tetraalkyl-1-pyrrolidinyl N-oxide, and wherein the alkyl groups have 1-4 carbon atoms.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the N-oxide compound comprises 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-1-piperidinyl N-oxide (TEMPO), 4-oxo-TEMPO, 4-methoxy-TEMPO, 4-cyano-TEMPO, 4-oxybenzoyl-TEMPO, 2,2,5,5-tetraalkyl-3-cyano-1-pyrrolidinyl N-oxide or mixture thereof.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the N-oxide compound has an oxidation potential from about 0.3 V to about 5 V above the recharged potential of the positive electrode.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the N-oxide compound has an oxidation potential from about 0.3 to about 0.6 V above the recharged potential of the positive electrode.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the N-oxide compound provides overcharge protection after at least 30 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the N-oxide compound and at an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the cell capacity during each cycle.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the N-oxide compound provides overcharge protection after at least 80 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the N-oxide compound and at an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the cell capacity during each cycle.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the positive electrode comprises LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.2FeSiO.sub.4, or combinations thereof.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the negative electrode comprises graphitic carbon, lithium metal or a lithium alloy.
A cell according to claim 1 wherein the charge carrying medium comprises ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate or combination thereof.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell comprising: (a) a positive electrode having a recharged potential and comprising LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.2FeSiO.sub.4, or combinations thereof (b) a negative electrode comprising graphitic carbon, lithium metal or a lithium alloy; and (c) a charge-carrying electrolyte comprising: (i) a charge-carrying media comprising ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate or combination thereof; (ii) a lithium salt comprising LiPF.sub.6, lithium bis(oxalato)borate or combination thereof; and (iii) a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-1-piperidinyl N-oxide (TEMPO), 4-oxo-TEMPO, 4-methoxy-TEMPO, 4-cyano-TEMPO, 4-oxybenzoyl-TEMPO, 2,2,5,5-tetraalkyl-3-cyano-1-pyrrolidinyl N-oxide or mixture thereof dissolved in the electrolyte and having an oxidation potential above the recharged potential of the positive electrode.
A method for manufacturing a rechargeable lithium-ion sealed cell comprising the steps of assembling in any order and enclosing in a suitable case: (a) a positive electrode having a recharged potential; (b) a negative electrode; (c) a charge-carrying electrolyte comprising charge a carrying medium and a lithium salt; and (d) a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising a cycloaliphatic N-oxide compound dissolved in or dissolvable in the electrolyte and having an oxidation potential above the recharged potential of the positive electrode, wherein the positive electrode is selected from LiCoPO.sub.4, LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.2FeS.sub.2, Li.sub.2FeSiO.sub.4, LiMnPO.sub.4, LiNiPO.sub.4, LiVOPO.sub.4F, Li.sub.3V.sub.2(PO.sub.4).sub.3, or combinations thereof.
A method for recharging a lithium-ion cell while chemically limiting cell damage due to overcharging comprising supplying charging current across a positive and a negative electrode of a lithium-ion rechargeable cell containing a charge-carrying electrolyte comprising a charge carrying medium, a lithium salt and a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising a cycloaliphatic N-oxide compound dissolved in the electrolyte and having an oxidation potential above the recharged potential of the positive electrode, wherein the positive electrode is selected from LiCoPO.sub.4, LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.2FeS.sub.2, Li.sub.2FeSiO.sub.4, LiMnPO.sub.4, LiNiPO.sub.4, LiVOPO.sub.4F, Li.sub.3V.sub.2(PO.sub.4).sub.3, or combinations thereof.
Pouch cell construction
An electrode assembly is formed by respectively overlaying a sheet cathode 1, a sheet separator 3 and a double-sided sheet anode 8 to form a stacked structure 10, and subjecting the stacked structure to multiple folds, wherein the initial fold comprises folding the cathode in half around the double-sided anode so as to surround the respective upper and lower active anode surfaces thereof.
The multiple folds may comprise one or more subsequent parallel folds made with the fold line D-D extending perpendicular to the original length of the stacked structure such that its overall length is halved at each fold.
A pouch battery comprising said electrode assembly has improved safety and performance characteristics.
The pouch battery construction has especial application to lithium primary batteries.
A pouch battery comprising an electrode assembly, said assembly formed by respectively overlaying a sheet cathode, a sheet seprator and a double-sided sheet anode to form a stacked structure, and subjecting the stacked structure to multiple folds, wherein the initial fold comprises folding the cathode in half around the double-sided anode so as to surround the respective upper and lower active anode surfaces thereof, and wherein one or more subsequent folds is made with the fold line extending perpendicular to the original length of the stacked structure and its overall length is halved at each fold, in which the double-sided anode comprises a single sheet current collector and one or more anode material layers forming said upper and lower active surfaces, wherein said layers have been attached together or merged together or otherwise combined together to form a single integral anode, and in which the double-sided anode comprises a current collector in the form of a mesh or grid with lithium foil occupying the openings thereof to form a double-sided lithium anode.
A primary lithium/solid cathode pouch battery comprising an electrode assembly formed by respectively overlaying a sheet cathode, a sheet separator and a double-sided sheet anode to form a stacked structure, and subjecting the stacked structure to multiple folds, wherein the initial fold comprises folding the cathode in half around the double-sided anode so as to surround the respective upper and lower active anode surfaces thereof, and wherein one or more successive folds comprises folding the stacked structure so its overall length is halved with each fold, the fold lines being made perpendicular to that length, and wherein the double-sided anode comprises a current collector in the form of a mesh or grid with lithium foil occupying the openings thereof to form a double-sided lithium anode.
Cathode material for Li-ion battery applications
A family of Li-ion battery cathode materials and methods of synthesizing the materials.
The cathode material is a defective crystalline lithium transition metal phosphate of a specific chemical form.
The material can be synthesized in air, eliminating the need for a furnace having an inert gas atmosphere.
Excellent cycling behavior and charge/discharge rate capabilities are observed in batteries utilizing the cathode materials.
A family of cathode materials for a lithium-ion battery, comprising substantially a defective structured crystalline lithium transition metal oxide in the form of Li.sub.(1-x/2)M.sub.xFe.sub.(1-x)P.sub.
(1-x)O.sub.2(2-x), wherein 0.01.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.3, M is one or more elements selected from the group of transition metals consisting of nickel, titanium, vanadium, chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt and aluminum, and the defective structured crystalline lithium transition metal oxide has vacancies.
The family of cathode materials for a lithium-ion battery of claim 1, wherein M further includes one or more elements selected from the group having divalent cations consisting of magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium and zinc.
The family of cathode materials for a lithium-ion battery of claim 2, further comprising incompletely reacted layer structure or spinel structure material.
The family of cathode materials for a lithium-ion battery of claim 1, further comprising incompletely reacted layer structure or spinel structure material.
Manganese oxide composite electrodes for lithium batteries
An activated electrode for a non-aqueous electrochemical cell is disclosed with a precursor thereof a lithium metal oxide with the formula xLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 for 0.5<x<1.0 such that the spinel component constitutes less than 50 mole % of the precursor electrode and 0.ltoreq.y<1 in which the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 and LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 components have layered and spinel-type structures, respectively, and in which M is one or more metal cations.
The electrode is activated by removing lithia, or lithium and lithia, from the precursor.
A cell and battery are also disclosed incorporating the disclosed positive electrode.
An activated electrode for a non-aqueous electrochemical cell, having as a precursor thereof a lithium metal oxide with the formula xLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.cndot.
(1-x)LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 for 0.5<x<1.0 such that the spinel component constitutes less than 50 mole % of the precursor electrode and 0.ltoreq.y<1 in which the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 and LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 components have layered and spinel-type structures, respectively, and in which M is one or more metal cations, said activated electrode being activated by removing lithia, or lithium and lithia, from said precursor.
The activated electrode according to claim 1, in which the spine) component is an end-of-charge indicator and/or an end-of-discharge indicator.
The activated electrode according to claim 1, in which M is one or more monovalent, divalent, trivalent or tetravalent cations.
The activated electrode according to claim 3, in which M is one or more Li.sup.+, Mg.sup.2+, Ni.sup.2+, Ni.sup.3+, Co.sup.2+, Co.sup.3+, Al.sup.3+, Ti.sup.4+ and Zr.sup.4+ ions.
The activated electrode according to claim 1, in which the manganese ions, or the lithium and manganese ions of the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 component are partially substituted by M cations.
The activated electrode according to claim 1, in which the components are partially reduced to provide mixed Mn.sup.4+/3+ valence in the precursor electrode.
The activated electrode of claim 1 and further including a negative electrode, and an electrolyte, said activated electrode being activated by removing lithia, or lithium and lithia, from said precursor, thereby forming an electrochemical cell.
A plurality of electrochemical cells of claim 7 arranged in parallel and/or in series to form a battery.
Redox shuttle for overdischarge protection in rechargeable lithium-ion  batteries
A battery of series-connected rechargeable lithium ion cells each of which contains a negative electrode; a negative electrode current collector; a positive electrode; a positive electrode current collector; and an electrolyte comprising charge carrying medium, lithium salt and cyclable redox chemical shuttle.
The negative electrode has a larger i rreversible first cycle capacity loss than that of the positive electrode, and is driven to a potential above that of the positive electrode if the cell is discharged to a state of cell reversal.
The shuttle has an electrochemical potential above the positive electrode maximum normal operating potential, and prevents the negative electrode potential from reaching even higher and more destructive positive values during overdischarge.
The current collector has a lithium alloying potential below the negative electrode minimum normal operating potential.
The battery chemically limits or eliminates cell damage due to repeated overdischarge, and may operate without electronic overdischarge protection circuitry.
A battery comprising a plurality of series-connected rechargeable lithium ion cells each comprising a negative electrode; a negative electrode current collector; a positive electrode; a positive electrode current collector; and an electrolyte comprising charge carrying medium, lithium salt and cyclable redox chemical shuttle, wherein the negative electrode has a larger irreversible first cycle capacity loss than the positive electrode, the redox chemical shuttle has an electrochemical potential above the positive electrode maximum normal operating potential, the negative current collector has a lithium alloying potential below the negative electrode minimum normal operating potential, and wherein the redox chemical shuttle comprises an aromatic compound substituted with at least one tertiary carbon organic group and at least one alkoxy group.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of cells can be discharged to 0 volts and recharged a plurality of times without substantially irreversibly reducing the recharge capacity of any cell.
A battery according to claim 1 comprising at least one weak cell having lower recharge capacity than at least one other cell, and wherein when the plurality of cells is discharged to 0 volts, the weak cell negative electrode potential increases to but does not exceed the shuttle oxidation potential.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the redox chemical shuttle can provide the battery with overdischarge protection after at least 5 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the shuttle to its radical cation and an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the battery capacity during each cycle, and at a discharge to a battery potential of zero volts during each cycle.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the redox chemical shuttle can provide the battery with overdischarge protection after at least 100 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the shuttle to its radical cation and an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the battery capacity during each cycle, and at a discharge to a battery potential of zero volts during each cycle.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the negative electrode has a larger capacity than the positive electrode and the redox chemical shuttle can provide the battery with overcharge protection after at least 100 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the shuttle to its radical cation and an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the battery capacity during each cycle.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the negative electrode comprises Li.sub.4/3Ti.sub.5/3O.sub.4or graphite.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the negative electrode current collector has a dissolution potential above the shuttle reduction potential.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the negative electrode current collector comprises aluminum.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the negative electrode current collector and positive electrode current collector are made of the same material.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the positive electrode comprises LiFePO.sub.4.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the negative electrode comprises Li.sub.4/3Ti.sub.5/3O.sub.4, the negative electrode current collector comprises aluminum and the positive electrode comprises LiFePO.sub.4.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the charge carrying medium comprises ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dimethoxyethane or combination thereof, and the lithium salt comprises LiPF.sub.6, lithium bis(oxalato)borate or combination thereof.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the redox chemical shuttle comprises 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene.
A battery according to claim 1 wherein the redox chemical shuttle has an electrochemical potential from about 3.7 to about 4.2 V vs. Li/Li.sup.+.
A battery according to claim 1 in the form of a replaceable battery pack without electronic overdischarge or electronic overcharge protection circuitry.
An electrical device comprising a) and electrical load and b) a battery comprising a plurality of series-connected rechargeable lithium ion cells each comprising a negative electrode; a negative electrode current collector; a positive electrode; a positive electrode current collector; and an electrolyte comprising charge carrying medium, lithium salt and cyclable redox chemical shuttle, wherein the negative electrode has a larger irreversible first cycle capacity loss than that of the positive electrode, the redox chemical shuttle has an electrochemical potential above the positive electrode maximum normal operating potential, the negative current collector has a lithium alloying potential below the negative electrode minimum normal operating potential, and wherein the redox chemical shuttle comprises an aromatic compound substituted with at least one tertiary carbon organic group and at least one alkoxy group.
A device according to claim 17 wherein the load comprises a portable computer, tablet display, personal digital assistant or telephone.
A device according to claim 17 wherein the load comprises a motor, illumination source or heat source.
A device according to claim 17 wherein the negative electrode comprises Li.sub.4/3Ti.sub.5/3O.sub.4, the negative electrode current collector comprises aluminum and the positive electrode comprises LiFePO.sub.4.
A device according to claim 17 wherein the redox chemical shuttle comprises 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene.
A device according to claim 17 without electronic overdischarge protection circuitry.
A device according to claim 17 without electronic overcharge protection circuitry.
Graphitic nanostructured battery
A method and apparatus are disclosed wherein a battery comprises at least one electrode formed from a graphitic carbon nanostructured surface wherein the nanostructured surface consists of a plurality of nanoposts formed from graphitic carbon such that the graphitic nanoposts serve both as an operational feature (i.e., dielectric/electrode) and control feature of the battery itself.
In one embodiment, the nanostructured surface consists of a plurality of nanoposts wherein a select portion of each nanopost is formed to serve as the dielectric of the nanostructured battery, and the balance of each nanopost is utilized to impart the control features to the nanostructured battery.
A battery, comprising: an electrolyte fluid; and a first electrode formed at least in part from a patterned plurality of nanostructured features on a substrate, the nanostructured features each including graphitic carbon, the electrolyte fluid being in contact with a surface formed by the patterned plurality of nanostructured features, and the electrolyte fluid being disposed between the first electrode and a second electrode; wherein the patterned plurality of nanostructured features, in addition to forming at least a part of the first electrode, enables controllable penetration of the electrolyte fluid through the surface and into contact with the substrate of the first electrode.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the patterned plurality of nanostructured features includes a plurality of nanostructured features each including graphitic turbostratic carbon.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the battery is configured for causing the electrolyte fluid to penetrate through the surface into the patterned plurality of nanostructured features and into contact with the substrate of the first electrode, upon applying a voltage between the first and second electrodes.
The battery of claim 3, wherein the electrolyte fluid is disposed in such a way between the first electrode and the second electrode so that upon causing the electrolyte fluid to penetrate through the surface and into contact with the substrate of the first electrode, the battery generates an electrical current.
The battery of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of nanostructured features has a first portion and a second portion such that the first portion forms at least a part of the first electrode and the second portion enables the controllable penetration of the electrolyte fluid through the surface and into contact with the substrate of the first electrode.
The battery of claim 5, wherein the second portion of each of the patterned plurality of nanostructured features includes a dielectric material.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte fluid includes lithium ions.
The battery of claim 6, wherein the dielectric material includes silicon dioxide, and wherein the first portion of each of the patterned plurality of nanostructured features includes graphitic carbon.
A method, comprising: providing a battery including an electrolyte fluid, a first electrode, and a second electrode, the first electrode being formed at least in part from a patterned plurality of nanostructured features on a substrate, the nanostructured features each including graphitic carbon, the electrolyte fluid being in contact with a surface formed by the patterned plurality of nanostructured features, and the electrolyte fluid being disposed between the first and second electrodes; and causing the patterned plurality of nanostructured features to enable controllable penetration of the electrolyte fluid through the surface and into contact with the substrate of the first electrode.
The method of claim 9, wherein causing the patterned plurality of nanostructured features to enable the controllable penetration of the electrolyte fluid through the surface and into contact with the substrate includes applying a voltage between the first and second electrodes and causing the electrolyte fluid to penetrate into the patterned plurality of nanostructured features.
The method of claim 9, wherein providing the battery includes providing the plurality of nanostructured features as each including graphitic turbostratic carbon.
The method of claim 9, wherein providing each of the plurality of nanostructured features includes providing a first portion of the nanostructured feature and a second portion of the nanostructured feature such that the first portion forms at least a part of the first electrode and such that the second portion enables the controllable penetration of the electrolyte fluid through the surface and into contact with the substrate.
The method of claim 12, wherein providing each of the plurality of nanostructured features includes providing the second portion as including a dielectric material.
A graphitic nanostructured surface for use in a battery comprising: a plurality of nanoposts formed from graphitic turbostratic carbon; and wherein said plurality of nanoposts function as a first electrode of said battery and provide a control for delivering a voltage or a current from said battery.
The graphitic nanostructured surface of claim 14 wherein said control provided by said plurality of nanoposts includes controlling a penetration of an electrolyte fluid in said plurality of nanoposts by passing a voltage over said plurality of nanoposts such that said electrolyte fluid penetrates said plurality of nanoposts, thus contacting said first electrode.
The graphitic nanostructured surface of claim 15 wherein each nanopost of said plurality of nanoposts has a first portion and second portion such that said first portion forms said first electrode and said second portion controls said contact of said electrolyte fluid and said first electrode.
The graphitic nanostructured surface of claim 16 wherein said first portion of said graphitic carbon nanopost is treated with a dielectric material.
The graphitic nanostructured surface of claim 15 wherein said electrolyte fluid contains lithium ions.
A battery, comprising: a substrate; a first electrode formed at least in part by a patterned plurality of nanostructured features; each of the plurality of nanostructured features including a conductive bottom portion being on the substrate, and a dielectric top portion being a dielectric tip of the nanostructured feature on the conductive bottom portion, the dielectric top portion being wholly located above the conductive bottom portion relative to the substrate; and an electrolyte fluid, being disposed between the first electrode and a second electrode, and being in contact with a surface formed by the dielectric tips; wherein the nanostructured features enable controllable penetration of the electrolyte fluid through the surface and into contact with the conductive bottom portions of the nanostructured features.
The battery of claim 19, wherein the dielectric top portion of each of the patterned plurality of nanostructured features includes SiO.sub.2.
The battery of claim 19, wherein the conductive bottom portion of each of the patterned plurality of nanostructured features includes graphitic carbon.
The battery of claim 21, wherein the conductive bottom portion of each of the patterned plurality of nanostructured features includes graphitic turbostratic carbon.
The battery of claim 19, wherein the battery is configured for causing the electrolyte fluid to penetrate through the surface into the conductive bottom portions of the patterned plurality of nanostructured features upon applying a voltage between the first and second electrodes.
The battery of claim 23, wherein the electrolyte fluid is disposed in such a way between the first electrode and the second electrode so that upon causing the electrolyte fluid to penetrate through the surface and into contact with the conductive bottom portions of the patterned plurality of nanostructured features, the battery generates an electrical current.
The battery of claim 19, wherein each dielectric top portion includes a distal end located at a first distance away from the substrate, wherein each conductive bottom portion includes a lateral side extending over a second distance spanning most of the first distance, and wherein the lateral side is configured for contacting the electrolyte fluid throughout the second distance upon penetration of the electrolyte fluid into contact with the conductive bottom portions.
Nonaqueous electrolytic solution for electrochemical cells
The invention relates to the use of an amine oxide as an additive in a nonaqueous electrolytic solution.
The electrolytic solution is suitable for use in electrochemical cells such as lithium batteries and lithium ion batteries.
Batteries using this electrolyte solution have long life and high capacity retention.
A secondary battery comprising a. an anode, b. a cathode comprising lithium, and c. an electrolytic solution comprising i. a non-aqueous solvent, ii.
a salt, and iii.
an amine oxide having the formula ##STR00003## wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are independently each a C.sub.6 to C.sub.36 hydrocarbon group, and R.sup.3 is a C.sub.1 to C.sub.36 hydrocarbon group.
The secondary battery of claim 1 wherein the hydrocarbon group of at least one of R.sup.1, R.sup.2, and R.sup.3, includes at least one substituent selected from the group consisting of --O--, --S--, --CO--, --CO.sub.2--, --SO--, --SO.sub.2--, --NR.sup.4--, --NR.sup.4R.sup.5, --PR.sup.6--, or --Si(R.sup.7R.sup.8)--, wherein R.sup.4 to R.sup.8 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, C.sub.1 to C.sub.20 saturated alkyl, C.sub.1-C.sub.20 alkenyl, phenyl, and combinations thereof.
The secondary battery of claim 1 wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are independently each a C.sub.8 to C.sub.26 hydrocarbon group and R.sup.3 is a C.sub.1 to C.sub.22 hydrocarbon group.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 1 wherein the amine oxides are selected from the group consisting of tri(6-aminohexyl)amine oxide, tri(10-aminodecyl)amine oxide, tri(4-cyclohexyl)amine oxide, dioctyl methyl amine oxide, trioctyl amine oxide, didecyl methyl amine oxide, tridecyl amine oxide, didodecyl methyl amine oxide, tridodecyl amine oxide, dihexadecyl methyl amine oxide, trihexadecyl amine oxide, di(coco alkyl)methyl amine oxide, tri(coco alkyl)amine oxide, di(tallow alkyl)methyl amine oxide, tri(tallow alkyl)amine oxide, tri(C.sub.20-C.sub.22)amine oxide, and di(C.sub.20-C.sub.22 alkyl)methyl amine oxide, and combinations thereof.
The secondary battery of claim 1 wherein the salt is selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiSbF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, LiTaF.sub.6, LiAlCl.sub.4, Li.sub.2B.sub.10Cl.sub.10, LiBOB, LiBMB, LiBDFMB, LiMOB, LiDFMOB, LiTOP, LiTDFMP, LiClO.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3SO.sub.3; LiN(SO.sub.2C.sub.mF.sub.2m+1)(SO.sub.2C.sub.nF.sub.2n+1), and LiC(SO.sub.2C.sub.kF.sub.2k+1)(SO.sub.2C.sub.mF.sub.2m+1)(SO.sub.2C.sub.n- F.sub.2n+1), wherein k=1-10, m=1-10, and n=1-10, respectively; LiN(SO.sub.2C.sub.pF.sub.2pSO.sub.2), and LiC(SO.sub.2C.sub.pF.sub.2pSO.sub.2)(SO.sub.2C.sub.qF.sub.2q+1) wherein p=1-10 and q=1-10; and LiPF.sub.x(R.sub.F).sub.6-x and LiBF.sub.y(R.sub.F).sub.4-y, wherein R.sub.F represents perfluorinated C.sub.1-C.sub.20 alkyl groups or perfluorinated aromatic groups, x=0-5, and y=0-3.
The secondary battery of claim 1 wherein the non-aqueous solvent is selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dipropyl carbonate, dibutyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate, methyl propyl carbonate, ethyl propyl carbonate, tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyl tetrahydrofuran, 1,3-dioxolane, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, 1,2-diethoxyethane, 1,2-dibutoxyethane, acetonitrile, dimethylformamide, methyl formate, ethyl formate, propyl formate, butyl formate, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, propyl acetate, butyl acetate, methyl propionate, ethyl propionate, propyl propionate, butyl propionate, methyl butyrate, ethyl butyrate, propyl butyrate, butyl butyrate, .gamma.-butyrolactone, 2-methyl-.gamma.-butyrolactone, 3-methyl-.gamma.-butyrolactone, 4-methyl-.gamma.-butyrolactone, .beta.-propiolactone, .delta.-valerolactone, trimethyl phosphate, triethyl phosphate, tris(2-chloroethyl)phosphate, tris(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phosphate, tripropyl phosphate, triisopropyl phosphate, tributyl phosphate, trihexyl phosphate, triphenyl phosphate, tritolyl phosphate, and combinations thereof.
The secondary battery of claim 1 wherein the electrolytic solution comprises: a. about 20 to about 99 wt % of the non-aqueous solvent, b. about 1 to about 50 wt % of the salt, and c. about 0.01 to about 10 wt % of the amine oxide.
The secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the non-aqueous electrolytic solution comprises: a. ethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate and ethylmethyl carbonate; b. LiPF.sub.6, and c. an amine oxide having the formula ##STR00004## wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are independently each a C.sub.14-C.sub.24 hydrocarbon group.
The secondary battery of claim 1 wherein the non-aqueous electrolytic solution comprises: a. ethylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate and ethylmethyl carbonate in a 1:1:1 weight ratio; b. LiPF.sub.6 in a concentration of about 1.0 M, c. and wherein, in the amine oxide having the formula ##STR00005## R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are independently each a C.sub.14-C.sub.24 hydrocarbon group.
A method of making a lithium battery or lithium ion battery comprising: a. providing an electrolytic solution comprising i. a non-aqueous solvent, ii.
a lithium containing salt, and iii.
an amine oxide having the formula ##STR00006## wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are independently each a C.sub.6 to C.sub.36 hydrocarbon group, and R.sup.3 is a C.sub.1 to C.sub.36 hydrocarbon group, b. laminating and winding a cathode, a first porous separator, an anode, and a second porous separator, c. placing the wound laminated electrodes and separators in a battery case, d. infusing the electrolytic solution into the battery case, and e. sealing the battery case containing the electrodes, electrolytic solution and separators.
The method of claim 10 wherein the hydrocarbon group of at least one of R.sup.1, R.sup.2, and R.sup.3 includes --O--, --S--, --CO--, --CO.sub.2--, --SO--, --SO.sub.2--, --NR.sup.4--, --NR.sup.4R.sup.5, --PR.sup.6--, or --Si(R.sup.7R.sup.8)--, wherein R.sup.4 to R.sup.8 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, C.sub.1 to C.sub.20 saturated alkyl, C.sub.1-C.sub.20 alkenyl, or substituted alkyl, phenyl, or substituted phenyl, or combinations thereof.
The method of claim 10 wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are independently each a C.sub.8 to C.sub.26 hydrocarbon group and R.sup.3 is a C.sub.1 to C.sub.22 hydrocarbon group.
The method of claim 10 wherein R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are independently each a C.sub.10 to C.sub.26 hydrocarbon group and R.sup.3 is a C.sub.1 hydrocarbon group.
The method of claim 10 wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2, and R.sup.3 are each the same C.sub.6 to C.sub.36 hydrocarbon group.
The method of claim 10 wherein the non-aqueous solvent is selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, butylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dipropyl carbonate, dibutyl carbonate, ethyl methyl carbonate, methyl propyl carbonate, ethyl propyl carbonate, tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyl tetrahydrofuran, 1,3-dioxolane, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, 1,2-diethoxyethane, 1,2-dibutoxyethane, acetonitrile, dimethylformamide, methyl formate, ethyl formate, propyl formate, butyl formate, methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, propyl acetate, butyl acetate, methyl propionate, ethyl propionate, propyl propionate, butyl propionate, methyl butyrate, ethyl butyrate, propyl butyrate, butyl butyrate, .gamma.-butyrolactone, 2-methyl-.gamma.-butyrolactone, 3-methyl-.gamma.-butyrolactone, 4-methyl-.gamma.-butyrolactone, .beta.-propiolactone, .delta.-valerolactone, trimethyl phosphate, triethyl phosphate, tris(2-chloroethyl)phosphate, tris(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phosphate, tripropyl phosphate, triisopropyl phosphate, tributyl phosphate, trihexyl phosphate, triphenyl phosphate, tritolyl phosphate, and combinations thereof.
The method of claim 10 wherein the lithium containing salt is selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiSbF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, LiTaF.sub.6, LiAlCl.sub.4, Li.sub.2B.sub.10Cl.sub.10, LiBOB, LiBMB, LiBDFMB, LiMOB, LiDFMOB, LiTOP, LiTDFMP, LiClO.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3SO.sub.3; LiN(SO.sub.2C.sub.mF.sub.2m+1)(SO.sub.2C.sub.nF.sub.2n+1), and LiC(SO.sub.2C.sub.kF.sub.2k+1)(SO.sub.2C.sub.mF.sub.2m+1)(SO.sub.2C.sub.n- F.sub.2n+1), wherein k=1-10, m=1-10, and n=1-10, respectively; LiN(SO.sub.2C.sub.pF.sub.2pSO.sub.2), and LiC(SO.sub.2C.sub.pF.sub.2pSO.sub.2)(SO.sub.2C.sub.qF.sub.2q+1) wherein p=1-10 and q=1-10; and LiPF.sub.x(R.sub.F).sub.6-x and LiBF.sub.y(R.sub.F).sub.4-y, wherein R.sub.F represents perfluorinated C.sub.1-C.sub.20 alkyl groups or perfluorinated aromatic groups, x=0-5, and y=0-3.
The method of claim 10 wherein the cathode comprises: a lithium mixed metal oxide selected from the group consisting of LiMnO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiCoO.sub.2, Li.sub.2Cr.sub.2O.sub.7, Li.sub.2CrO.sub.4, LiNiO.sub.2, LiFeO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.xCo.sub.1-xO.sub.2 (0<x<1), LiFePO.sub.4, Li.sub.3VPO.sub.4, LiMn.sub.0.5Ni.sub.0.5O.sub.2, LiMn.sub.1/3Co.sub.1/3Ni.sub.1/3O.sub.2, LiNi.sub.xCo.sub.yMe.sub.zO.sub.2 wherein Me may be one or more of Al, Mg, Ti, B, Ga, or Si and 0<x,y,z<1, and LiMc.sub.0.5Mn.sub.1.5O.sub.4 wherein Mc is a divalent metal, and mixtures thereof.
The method of claim 10 wherein the anode comprises a material selected from the group consisting of crystalline carbon, lithium metal, LiMnO.sub.2, LiAl, LiZn, Li.sub.3Bi, Li.sub.3Cd, Li.sub.3Sb, Li.sub.4Si, Li.sub.4.4Pb, Li.sub.4.4Sn, LiC.sub.6, Li.sub.3FeN.sub.2, Li.sub.2.6Cu.sub.0.4N, Li.sub.2.6Cu.sub.0.4N, Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12, and combinations thereof.
Non-aqueous electrolyte for use in a battery
A non-aqueous electrolyte is disclosed.
Exemplary embodiments include at least one ionically conducting salt, especially a lithium salt, a non-aqueous, anhydrous solvent for the ionically conductive salt, the solvent being selected to achieve a degree of dissociation of the ionically conductive salt in the non-aqueous solvent, at least one oxide in a particulate form, the oxide being selected such that it is not soluble in the solvent and such that it is water-free.
The electrolyte can be used in a primary or secondary lithium battery, in a supercapacitor, in an electro-chromic display or in a solar cell.
A non-aqueous electrolyte consisting essentially of: at least one ionically conducting salt; a non-aqueous, anhydrous solvent for said ionically conductive salt, said solvent being selected to achieve a degree of dissociation of the ionically conductive salt in the non-aqueous solvent; and at least one oxide in a particulate form with a particle size below 5 .mu.m, said oxide being selected such that it is not soluble in said solvent and such that it is water-free, said oxide being present as a solid phase in a solution formed by said ionically conductive salt in said solvent in an amount by volume in a range from 20% to 50% whereby, percolation type behavior arises with a pronounced increase in conductivity with a marked maximum.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said degree of dissociation comprises a low degree of dissociation with an association constant ranging from 1.times.10.sup.-1 to 10.sup.8/l.sup.-1.mol.sup.-1.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1, said electrolyte being disposed in a primary or secondary lithium battery having positive and negative electrodes, said oxide being selected such that it does not react with the material of either of said positive and negative electrodes.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1, said electrolyte being disposed in a supercapacitor.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said ionically conductive salt comprises a salt selected from the group consisting of Li(TFSI), LiPF.sub.6 and LiClO.sub.4, a sodium salt, and a silver salt.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1, wherein said non-aqueous, anhydrous solvent is selected from the group consisting of DME/EC, DEC/EC, DMC/EC, PC, Dimethyl Sulfoxide, THF, and Acryl Nitrile.
A non-aqueous electrolyte in accordance with claim 1, wherein said oxide is selected from the group consisting of SiO.sub.2, TiO.sub.2, Al.sub.2O.sub.3, and MgO.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the average particle size of the oxide for particles of approximately spherical shape is selected to be less than 5 .mu.m.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the average diameter of elongated particles is selected to be less than 1 .mu.m.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the oxide is present in the electrolyte in an amount so as to give the electrolyte a consistency between that of a liquid and a solid.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the oxide is present in the electrolyte in an amount by volume in the range from approximately 20 to 40%.
A battery comprising positive and negative electrodes and a non-aqueous electrolyte, said non-aqueous electrolyte consisting essentially of: at least one ionically conducting salt; a non-aqueous, anhydrous solvent associated with the ionically conductive salt, said solvent being selected to achieve a degree of dissociation of the ionically conductive salt in the non-aqueous solvent; and at least one oxide in a particulate form with a particle size below 5 .mu.m, said oxide being selected such that it is not soluble in said solvent and such that it is water-free, said oxide being present as a solid phase in a solution formed by said ionically conductive salt in said solvent in an amount by volume in a range from 20% to 50% whereby, percolation type behavior arises with a pronounced increase in conductivity with a marked maximum.
A supercapacitor comprising positive and negative electrodes and a non-aqueous electrolyte disposed between said electrodes, said non-aqueous electrolyte consisting essentially of: at least one ionically conducting salt; a non-aqueous, anhydrous solvent associated with the ionically conductive salt, said solvent being selected to achieve a degree of dissociation of the ionically conductive salt in the non-aqueous solvent; and at least one oxide in a particulate form with a particle size below 5 .mu.m, said oxide being selected such that it is not soluble in said solvent and such that it is water-free, said oxide being present as a solid phase in a solution formed by said ionically conductive salt in said solvent in an amount by volume in a range from 20% to 50% whereby, percolation type behavior arises with a pronounced increase in conductivity with a marked maximum.
An electro-chromic device including a non-aqueous electrolyte, said non-aqueous electrolyte comprising consisting essentially of: at least one ionically conducting salt; a non-aqueous, anhydrous solvent associated with the ionically conductive salt, said solvent being selected to achieve a degree of dissociation of the ionically conductive salt in the non-aqueous solvent; and at least one oxide in a particulate form with a particle size below 5 .mu.m, said oxide being selected such that it is not soluble in said solvent and such that it is water-free, said oxide being present as a solid phase in a solution formed by said ionically conductive salt in said solvent in an amount by volume in a range from 20% to 50% whereby, percolation type behavior arises with a pronounced increase in conductivity with a marked maximum.
A solar energy cell including a non-aqueous electrolyte, said non-aqueous electrolyte consisting essentially of: at least one ionically conducting salt; a non-aqueous, anhydrous solvent associated with the ionically conductive salt, said solvent being selected to achieve a degree of dissociation of the ionically conductive salt in the non-aqueous solvent; and at least one oxide in a particulate form with a particle size below 5 .mu.m, said oxide being selected such that it is not soluble in said solvent and such that it is water-free, said oxide being present as a solid phase in a solution formed by said ionically conductive salt in said solvent in an amount by volume in a range from 20% to 50% whereby, percolation type behavior arises with a pronounced increase in conductivity with a marked maximum.
The non-aqueous electrolyte of claim 1 wherein a heterogeneous doping effect is achieved consisting of one ion sort being absorbed and leading to said dissociation.
The battery of claim 12 wherein a heterogeneous doping effect is achieved consisting of one ion sort being absorbed and leading to said dissociation.
The supercapacitor of claim 13 wherein a heterogeneous doping effect is achieved consisting of one ion sort being absorbed and leading to said dissociation.
The electro-chromic device of claim 14 wherein a heterogeneous doping effect is achieved consisting of one ion sort being absorbed and leading to said dissociation.
The solar energy cell of claim 15 wherein a heterogeneous doping effect is achieved consisting of one ion sort being absorbed and leading to said dissociation.
A non-aqueous electrolyte comprising consisting essentially of: at least one ionically conducting salt; a non-aqueous, anhydrous solvent for said ionically conductive salt, said solvent being selected to achieve a degree of dissociation of the ionically conductive salt in the non-aqueous solvent; and at least one oxide in a particulate form with a particle size below 5 .mu.m, said oxide being selected such that it is not soluble in said solvent and such that it is water-free, said oxide being present as a solid phase in a solution formed by said ionically conductive salt in said solvent in an amount by volume in a range from 20% to 50% to form a slurry having the consistency of soggy sand, whereby percolation type behavior arises with a pronounced increase in conductivity with a marked maximum.
Cathode material for Li-ion battery applications
A family of Li-ion battery cathode materials and methods of synthesizing the materials.
The cathode material is a defective crystalline lithium transition metal phosphate of a specific chemical form.
The material can be synthesized in air, eliminating the need for a furnace having an inert gas atmosphere.
Excellent cycling behavior and charge/discharge rate capabilities are observed in batteries utilizing the cathode materials.
A method for forming a cathode material for a lithium-ion battery, comprising the steps of: a) providing a crystalline lithium transition metal oxide of LiNi.sub.(0.92)Mg.sub.
(0.08)O.sub.2 or Li.sub.(1.07)Mn.sub.
(1.93)O.sub.4, b) providing starting chemicals Fe.sub.2O.sub.3, Li.sub.2CO.sub.3, H.sub.3PO.sub.4, and C in stoichiometric amounts of 1:1:2:2. c) forming and mixing a slurry of the starting chemicals, drying the slurry in air at about 150.degree.
C., for about 10 hours, heating the dried slurry to about 400.degree.
C. for about 5 hours to obtain a product suitable for milling, d) combining and milling the materials of a) and c) so as to form a mixture of the materials of a) and c) in particulate form, the mixture containing 3 wt % of crystalline lithium transition metal oxide, e) providing a furnace having a furnace chamber with a gaseous environment of air, f) heating the material of step d) to form a cathode material having a defective crystalline structure of crystalline LiFe.sub.(1-x)M.sub.xP.sub.
(1-x)O.sub.2(2-x) or Li.sub.(1-x/2)M.sub.xFe.sub.(1-x)P.sub.
(1-x)O.sub.2(2-x) wherein 0.01.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.3, M is one or more elements from the group of metals consisting of nickel, magnesium and manganese, said heating is carried out in a vessel in the air of the furnace chamber at a temperature of about 600.degree.
C. for a period of about 10 hours, and surfaces of the material facing the air are covered by a layer of an inert blanket of a solid material which is porous and that allows air permeation and escaping of any gases caused by said heating.
A method for forming a cathode for a lithium-ion battery, comprising the steps of: a) providing a crystalline lithium transition metal oxide, b) providing starting chemicals of Li:Fe:P:C in a molar ratio of 1:1:1:2, c) combining and milling the materials of a) and b) so as to form a mixture of the materials of a) and b) in particulate form, d) providing a furnace having a furnace chamber with a gaseous environment of air, e) heating the material of step c) to form a cathode material having a defective crystalline structure of crystalline LiFe.sub.(1-x)M.sub.xP.sub.
(1-x)O.sub.2(2-x) or Li.sub.(1-x/2)M.sub.xFe.sub.(1-x)P.sub.
(1-x)O.sub.2(2-x), wherein 0.01.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.3, M is one or more elements selected from the group of metals consisting of nickel, titanium, vanadium, chromium, manganese, iron, cobalt and aluminum, said heating is carried out in a vessel in the air of the furnace chamber, and surfaces of the material facing the air are covered by a layer of an inert blanket of a solid material which is porous and that allows air permeation and escaping of any gases caused by said heating.
f) preparing a slurry having a content of 85-95 wt % of the material of step e), 2-7 wt % carbon, 2-7 wt % of a soluble binding material, and a solvent for said soluble binding material, g) coating at least one side of a foil with said slurry, and h) drying said slurry coating.
A method for forming a Li-ion battery, comprising a) forming a plurality of cathodes by the method of claim 2, b) forming a plurality of anodes, c) arranging a plurality of cathodes and anodes in alternating sequence, d) providing an electrolyte between said alternative cathodes and anodes.
Lithium metal oxide electrodes for lithium batteries
An uncycled preconditioned electrode for a non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell including a lithium metal oxide having the formula xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 in which 0<x<1, 0<y<1 and 0<z<1, M is anon-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more of the first row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first and second row transition metal elements and Sn.
The xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.y.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 material is prepared by preconditioning a precursor lithium metal oxide (i.e., xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2) with a proton-containing medium with a pH<7.0 containing an inorganic acid.
Methods of preparing the electrodes are disclosed, as are electrochemical cells and batteries containing the electrodes.
An electrode for a non-aqueous lithium cell, comprising a lithium metal oxide having the formula xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 in which 0<x<1, 0<y<1 and 0<z<1 made from a lithium metal oxide precursor material having the formula xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2, in which 0.ltoreq.x<1, and in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more first-row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first- and second-row transition metal elements and Sn, the xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 being made by preconditioning the precursor material in a proton-containing medium with a pH<7.0 including one or n-tore of phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, acetic acid, hydrochloric acid or hydrofluoric acid.
The electrode of claim 1, in which M is selected from Co, Ni, Mn, Ti, Mg and Al, and M' is selected from Ti, Mn, Zr, Ru and Sn.
The electrode of claim 2, in which M is selected from Co, Ni and Mn, and M' is selected from Ti and Mn.
The electrode of claim 3, in which M is selected from Co, Ni and Mn, and M' is selected from Mn.
The electrode of claim 4, in which M is selected from Ni and Mn, and M' is selected from Mn.
A method of synthesizing the electrode of claim 1 by subjecting the xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2 precursor material to an acidic solution with pH<7.0, and thereafter heating the electrode in air above 100.degree.
C. 7.
The method according to claim 6 in which the electrode is heated below 600.degree.
C. 8.
The method according to claim 7 in which the electrode is heated below 400.degree.
C. 9.
The method according to claim 6 in which the proton-containing medium consists of de-ionized water and one or more of an inorganic acid.
An electrode made according to the method of claim 6.
A method of synthesizing the electrode of claim 1 by subjecting the xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2 precursor material to an acidic solution with pH<7.0, containing an ammonium salt dissolved in one or more aqueous or non-aqueous solvents and thereafter heating the electrode in air above 100.degree.
C. 12.
The method of claim 11, in which the acidic solution is NH.sub.4F or NH.sub.4HF.sub.2 dissolved in water or an alcohol.
The method of claim 12, in which the NH.sub.4F salt is dissolved in methanol.
The method of claim 13, in which the NH.sub.4F salt is dissolved in methanol and thereafter heating the electrode in air at 600.degree.
C. 15.
An electrode made according to the method of claim 11.
A non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell comprising a negative electrode, an electrolyte and an uncycled positive electrode comprising a lithium metal oxide having the formula xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 in which 0<x<1, 0<y<1 and 0<z<1 made from a lithium metal oxide precursor material having the formula xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2, in which 0.ltoreq.x<1, and in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more first-row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first- and second-row transition metal elements and Sn, said xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-z H.sub.zMO.sub.2 being made by preconditioning the precursor material in a proton-containing medium with a pH<7.0 containing an inorganic acid.
A non-aqueous lithium battery comprising a plurality of electrically connected electrochemical cells, each cell having a negative electrode, an electrolyte and an uncycled positive electrode comprising a lithium metal oxide having the formula xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 in which 0<x<1, 0<y<1 and 0<z<1 made from a lithium metal oxide precursor material having the formula xLi.sub.2M'O.sub.3.
(1-x)LiMO.sub.2, in which 0.ltoreq.x<1, and in which M is a non-lithium metal ion with an average trivalent oxidation state selected from two or more first-row transition metals or lighter metal elements in the periodic table, and M' is one or more ions with an average tetravalent oxidation state selected from the first- and second-row transition metal elements and Sn, said xLi.sub.2-yH.sub.yO.xM'O.sub.2.
(1-x)Li.sub.1-zH.sub.zMO.sub.2 being made by preconditioning the precursor material in a proton-containing medium with a pH<7.0 containing an inorganic acid.
The non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell of claim 16, wherein said proton-containing medium contains fluoride ions, phosphate ions, or a combination thereof.
The non-aqueous lithium battery of claim 17, wherein said proton-containing medium contains fluoride ions, phosphate ions, or a combination thereof.
Nano graphene platelet-base composite anode compositions for lithium ion  batteries
The present invention provides a nano-scaled graphene platelet-based composite material composition for use as an electrode, particularly as an anode of a lithium ion battery.
The composition comprises: (a) micron- or nanometer-scaled particles or coating which are capable of absorbing and desorbing lithium ions; and (b) a plurality of nano-scaled graphene platelets (NGPs), wherein a platelet comprises a graphene sheet or a stack of graphene sheets having a platelet thickness less than 100 nm; wherein at least one of the particles or coating is physically attached or chemically bonded to at least one of the graphene platelets and the amount of platelets is in the range of 2% to 90% by weight and the amount of particles or coating in the range of 98% to 10% by weight.
Also provided is a lithium secondary battery comprising such a negative electrode (anode).
The battery exhibits an exceptional specific capacity, an excellent reversible capacity, and a long cycle life.
A nano-scaled graphene platelet-based composite composition for use as a lithium ion battery anode, said composition comprising: a) micron- or nanometer-scaled particles or coating which are capable of absorbing and desorbing lithium ions; and b) a plurality of separated or isolated nano-scaled graphene platelets (NGPs), wherein a platelet comprises a graphene sheet or a stack of graphene sheets having a platelet thickness less than 100 nm; wherein at least one of said particles or coating is physically attached or chemically bonded to at least one of said platelets and the amount of platelets is in the range of 2% to 90% by weight and the amount of particles or coating is in the range of 98% to 10% by weight; wherein the particles or coating comprises an active material capable of absorbing or extracting lithium ions and said active material is selected from the group consisting of: (a) silicon (Si), germanium (Ge), tin (Sn), lead (Pb), antimony (Sb), bismuth (Bi), zinc (Zn), aluminum (Al), and cadmium (Cd); (b) alloys or intermetallic compounds of Si, Ge, Sn, Pb, Sb, Bi, Zn, Al, or Cd with other elements, wherein said alloys or compounds are stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric; (c) oxides, carbides, nitrides, sulfides, phosphides, selenides, and tellurides of Si, Ge, Sn, Pb, Sb, Bi, Zn, Al, Fe, or Cd, and their mixtures or composites; (d) salts and hydroxides of Sn; and (e) combinations thereof.
The composite composition of claim 1 wherein said NGPs are obtained from exfoliation and separation of graphene sheets of a laminar graphite material selected from natural graphite, synthetic graphite, highly oriented pyrolytic graphite, graphite fiber, carbon fiber, carbon nano-fiber, graphitic nano-fiber, spherical graphite or graphite globule, meso-phase micro-bead, meso-phase pitch, graphitic coke, graphitized polymeric carbon, or a combination thereof.
The composite composition as defined in claim 1 wherein said platelets have a specific surface area greater than about 100 m.sup.2/gm or have an average thickness thinner than 10 nm.
The hybrid composition as defined in claim 1 wherein said platelets have a specific surface area greater than about 500 m.sup.2/gm or have an average thickness thinner than 2 nm.
The composite composition as defined in claim 1 wherein said particles have a dimension less than 5 .mu.m or said coating has a thickness less than 5 .mu.m.
The composite composition as defined in claim 1, further comprising a conductive additive selected from carbon or graphitic nano-fiber, carbon nano-tube, carbon black, activated carbon powder, or a combination thereof.
The composite composition as defined in claim 1 wherein the particles or coating comprise Sn or Si as a primary element with Si or Sn content no less than 20% by weight based on the total weight of the particles or coating and nano-scaled graphene platelets.
The composite composition as defined in claim 1 wherein the particles comprise an element selected from Si, Ge, Sn, Cd, Sb, Pb, Bi, or Zn.
The composite composition as defined in claim 1 wherein the particles or coating are amorphous or comprise nano crystallites.
The composite composition as defined in claim 1 further comprising an amorphous carbon, polymeric carbon, carbon black, coal tar pitch, petroleum pitch, or meso-phase pitch in physical contact with said particles or coating.
The composite composition as defined in claim 10 wherein said polymeric carbon is obtained from pyrolyzation of a polymer selected from the group consisting of phenol-formaldehyde, polyacrylonitrile, styrene-based polymers, cellulosic polymers, epoxy resins, and combinations thereof.
The composite composition of claim 10 wherein said amorphous carbon phase is obtained from chemical vapor deposition, chemical vapor infiltration, or pyrolyzation of an organic precursor.
A lithium secondary battery comprising a positive electrode, a negative electrode comprising a composite composition as defined in claim 1 which is capable of absorbing and desorbing lithium ions, and an electrolyte disposed between said negative electrode and said positive electrode.
The lithium secondary battery according to claim 13, wherein said positive electrode comprises lithium cobalt oxide, lithium nickel oxide, lithium manganese oxide, lithium iron phosphate, lithium vanadium phosphate, or a combination thereof.
The lithium secondary battery as defined in claim 13, wherein said composite composition further comprises a binder material selected from a polymer, coal tar pitch, petroleum pitch, meso-phase pitch, coke, or a derivative thereof.
The lithium secondary battery as defined in claim 13, wherein said composite composition provides a specific capacity of no less than 600 mAh per gram of the anode composition.
The lithium secondary battery as defined in claim 13, wherein said composite composition provides a specific capacity of no less than 1,000 mAh per gram of the anode composition.
Anode active material for lithium secondary battery and manufacturing  method thereof
An anode active material for a lithium secondary battery, wherein a nitride compound containing silicon or metal such as copper, tin, germanium, indium and zinc is doped with second metal such as ferrum, cobalt, nickel and copper.
To obtain the anode active material, a predetermined amount of metal nitride or silicon nitride is added to a second metal powder and then mixed uniformly.
The mixture powder is filled into a container, and then a pressure is applied thereto to obtain a solid sample.
The solid sample is heat-treated and pulverized into fine powder.
The fine powder is heat-treated to obtain the metal nitride or the silicon nitride doped with the second metal.
An anode active material for a lithium secondary battery, comprising: a nitride compound including silicon doped with second metal.
The anode active material according to claim 1, wherein the second metal is selected from the group consisting of ferrum, cobalt, nickel, and copper.
The anode active material of claim 2, wherein the second metal is ferrum or cobalt.
A lithium ion battery comprising the anode active material of claim 1.
A lithium ion battery, comprising: a cathode; an anode comprising an anode active material, the anode active material comprising a nitride compound including doped with second metal; a separator interposed between the cathode and the anode; and an electrolyte.
The lithium ion battery according to claim 5, wherein the second metal is selected from the group consisting of ferrum, cobalt, nickel and copper.
The lithium ion battery of claim 6, wherein the second metal is ferrum or cobalt.
The lithium ion battery according to claim 5, wherein the anode active material is Si.sub.4.5FeN.sub.6 or Si.sub.4.5CoN.sub.6.
A method for manufacturing an anode active material for a lithium secondary battery, the method comprising: adding a nitride compound including silicon to second metal and mixing them uniformly to form a mixture powder, filling the mixture powder into a container and applying pressure to the mixture powder to obtain a solid sample; first heat-treating the solid sample; pulverizing the first heat-treated solid sample into fine powder; and second heat-treating the floe powder to obtain metal nitride doped with second metal.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the second metal is selected from the group consisting of ferrum, cobalt, nickel and copper.
The method of claim 10, wherein the second metal is ferrum or cobalt.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the nitride compound has an average diameter of sub-micrometer unit.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the pressure is 25 MPa.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the pressure of 25 MPa is repeatedly applied two or three times.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the first heat treatment is conducted within a furnace filled with nitrogen gas at 300.degree.
C. for 24 hours.
The method according to claim 9, wherein the second heat treatment thermally treats the fine powder at 800.degree.
C. for 3 hours.
The anode active material manufactured by the method of claim 9.
A lithium ion battery comprising the anode active material of claim 17.
Alloy compositions for lithium ion batteries
Alloy compositions are described for use in anodes of lithium ion batteries.
The alloy compositions contain (a) tin, (b) a second element that includes silicon, aluminum, or a combination thereof, (c) a third element that includes yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof and an optional alkaline earth element, and (d) an optional transition metal.
The alloy compositions are amorphous and remain amorphous even after multiple cycles of lithiation and delithiation.
A lithium ion battery comprising a cathode, an anode, and an electrolyte that is electrical communication with both the anode and the cathode, wherein the anode comprises an alloy composition that is amorphous, the alloy composition comprising a) tin in an amount of 1 to 50 mole percent; b) a second element comprising silicon, aluminum, or a combination thereof, wherein the second element is present in an amount of 20 to 95 mole percent; and c) a third element comprising yttrium, a lanthanide element, actinide element, or a combination thereof in an amount of at least 3 mole percent and an optional alkaline earth element, wherein the third element is present in an amount of 3 to 50 mole percent, wherein the alloy composition is substantially free of transition metal, wherein each mole percent is based on a total number of moles of all elements in the alloy composition except lithium, and wherein an x-ray diffraction pattern of the alloy composition has broad peaks having a maximum width at half of the maximum peak height of at least 5 degrees two theta.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the third element comprises cerium, lanthanum, praseodymium, neodymium, or a combination thereof.
The lithium ion battery of claim 2, wherein the third element further comprises an alkaline earth element comprising magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, or a combination thereof.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition comprises particles having a maximum dimension of 1 micrometers to 60 micrometers.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition further comprises an alkaline metal.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition comprises less than 1 mole percent of a transition metal based on the moles of the alloy composition.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition is of Formula I: Sn.sub.aSi.sub.bAl.sub.cM.sub.dA.sub.eT.sub.fLi.sub.g (I) wherein a is an number in the range of 1 to 50; b is a number in the range of 0 to 95; c is a number in the range of 0 to 95; b+c is a number in the range of 20 to 95; M is yttrium, a lanthanide, actinide element, or a combination thereof; d is a number in the range of 3 to 50; A is an alkaline earth element; e is a number in the range of 0 to 20; d+e is a number in the range of 3 to 50; T is a transition metal; f is a number in the range of 0 to 1; g is a number in the range of 0 to [4.4(a+b)+c]; and a+b+c+d+e+f is equal to 100.
The lithium ion battery of claim 7, wherein a is a number in the range of 10 to 40; b is a number in the range of 40 to 90; c is a number in the range of 0 to 5; d is a number in the range of 5 to 15; e is a number in the range of 0 to 10; and f is a number in the range of 0 to 1.
The lithium ion battery of claim 7, wherein a is a number in the range of 10 to 40; b is a number in the range of 0 to 5; c is a number in the range of 40 to 90; d is a number in the range of 10 to 20; e is a number in the range of 0 to 10; and f is a number in the range of 0 to 1.
The lithium ion battery of claim 7, wherein a is a number in the range of 15 to 25; b is a number in the range of 1 to 15; c is a number in the range of 50 to 70; d is a number in the range of 10 to 20; e is a number in the range of 0 to 10; and f is a number in the range of 0 to 1.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the anode further comprises an organic binder comprising a polyimide.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the anode further comprises lithium metal.
A battery pack comprising at least one lithium ion battery according to claim 1.
A method of preparing a lithium ion battery, said method comprising: providing an amorphous alloy composition comprising a) tin in an amount of 1 to 50 mole percent; b) a second element comprising silicon, aluminum, or a combination thereof, wherein the second element is present in an amount of 20 to 95 mole percent; and c) a third element comprising yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof and an optional alkaline earth element, wherein the third element is present in an amount of 3 to 50 mole percent, wherein the alloy composition is substantially free of transition metal, wherein each mole percent is based on a total number of moles of all elements in the alloy composition except lithium; and providing a cathode and an electrolyte, wherein the electrolyte is in electrical communication with both the cathode and the anode, wherein an x-ray diffraction pattern of the alloy composition has broad peaks having a maximum width at half of the maximum peak height of at least 5 degrees two theta.
The method of claim 14, wherein providing the alloy composition comprises melt processing tin, the second element, and the third element.
The method of claim 14, wherein providing the alloy composition comprises sputtering tin, the second element, and the third element.
The method of claim 14, wherein the third element comprises cerium, lanthanum, praseodymium, neodymium, or a combination thereof.
The method of claim 14, wherein providing the alloy composition comprises forming particles having a maximum dimension of 1 micrometers to 60 micrometers.
The method of claim 14, wherein the alloy composition is of Formula I: Sn.sub.aSi.sub.bAl.sub.cM.sub.dA.sub.eT.sub.fLi.sub.g (I) wherein a is an number in the range of 1 to 50; b is a number in the range of 0 to 95; c is a number in the range of 0 to 95; b+c is a number in the range of 20 to 95; M is yttrium, a lanthanide, an actinide element, or a combination thereof; d is a number in the range of 3 to 50; A is an alkaline earth element; e is a number in the range of 0 to 20; d+e is a number in the range of 3 to 50; T is a transition metal; f is a number in the range of 0 to 1; g is a number in the range of 0 to [4.4(a+b)+c]; and a+b+c+d+e+f is equal to 100.
An alloy composition comprising a) tin in an amount of 1 to 50 mole percent; b) a second element comprising silicon, aluminum, or a combination thereof, wherein the second element is present in an amount of 20 to 95 mole percent; and c) a third element comprising yttrium, a lanthanide element, actinide element, or a combination thereof in an amount of at least 3 mole percent and an optional alkaline earth element, wherein the third element is present in an amount of 3 to 50 mole percent, wherein the alloy composition is substantially free of transition metal, wherein each mole percent is based on a total number of moles of all elements in the alloy composition except lithium, wherein the alloy composition is amorphous, and wherein an x-ray diffraction pattern of the alloy composition has broad peaks having a maximum width at half of the maximum peak height of at least 5 degrees two theta.
Dynamically adaptive method for determining the state of charge of a  battery
A method for determining the state of charge (SOC) of a lithium ion battery is provided.
The method leverages a circuit model of the lithium ion battery, and generates four battery parameters from which the SOC is derived.
An automated method for determining state of charge (SOC) of a battery having an ohmic resistance (R), a double layer voltage (V.sub.dl), an open circuit voltage (V.sub.oc), and a characterizing constant ##EQU00009## where C.sub.dl is a double layer capacitance of the battery, the method comprising: obtaining, at an electronic and processor-based energy management controller, sampled terminal voltage (V) data for the battery; obtaining, at the energy management controller, sampled terminal current (I) data for the battery; calculating, with the energy management controller, a vector quantity .phi.
(k) in accordance with the relationship .phi.
(k)=[dt(k)V(k -1), I(k)-I (k-1)dt(k)I(k-1)dt(k)U(k -1)].sup.T , where k indicates a present time step, T indicates a matrix transpose, and U( )indicates a unit step function; calculating, with the energy management controller, battery parameters .theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, .theta..sub.3, and .theta..sub.4 in accordance with the relationship V(k)-V(k-1)=.theta..sup.T .theta.
(k), where .theta.=[.theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, .theta..sub.3, .theta..sub.4].sup.T and T indicates a matrix transpose; generating, with the energy management controller, a present SOC value from the battery parameters .theta..sub.1 and .theta..sub.4; and saving .theta.
in a memory element, for use as an initial condition for a subsequent iteration of the method; wherein .theta..tau.
##EQU00010## where .tau.
is a double layer time constant for the battery; .theta..sub.2=R; .theta..sub.3=BR +A; and .theta..sub.4=BV.sub.oc.
The method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining sampled battery temperature data for the battery, wherein generating a present SOC value comprises generating the present SOC value from the battery parameters .theta..sub.1 and .theta..sub.4 and from the sampled battery temperature data.
The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing an arbitrary initial terminal voltage value; providing an arbitrary initial terminal current value; and setting an initial condition for generation of the present SOC value, the initial condition being based upon the arbitrary initial terminal voltage value and the arbitrary initial terminal current value.
The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing the present SOC value to a threshold value; and if the present SOC value is less than the threshold value, initiating charging of the battery.
The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating a present V.sub.oc, value for the battery in accordance with the relationship .theta..theta.
##EQU00011## wherein generating a present SOC value comprises generating the present SOC value from the present V.sub.oc value.
The method of claim 1, wherein calculating battery parameters .theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, .theta..sub.3, and .theta..sub.4 comprises: computing a gain vector (G) in accordance with the relationship .times..PHI..function..lamda..PHI..function..times..times..PHI..function.
##EQU00012## where P is a correlation matrix for the battery parameters .theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, .theta..sub.3, and .theta..sub.4, .lamda.
is a forgetting factor, and 0 <.lamda..ltoreq.1; computing an estimation error (.alpha.)
in accordance with the relationship .alpha.=V(k)-V(k-1) .theta..sup.T .phi.
(k); and adaptively computing .theta.
in accordance with the relationship .theta..sub.new =.theta..sub.old +G.alpha.. 7.
The method of claim 6, further comprising updating P in accordance with the relationship .lamda..times..lamda..times..times..PHI..function..times.
##EQU00013## 8.
A diagnostic and control system for a vehicle battery, the diagnostic and control system comprising: a lithium ion battery pack having an ohmic resistance (R), a double layer voltage (V.sub.dl), an open circuit voltage (V.sub.oc), and a characterizing constant ##EQU00014## where C.sub.dl is a double layer capacitance of the lithium ion battery pack; a power inverter module coupled to the lithium ion battery pack; and a controller coupled to the power inverter module and to the lithium ion battery pack, the controller being configured to regulate operation of the power inverter module, and the controller comprising a computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer-executable instructions for determining state of charge (SOC) of the lithium ion battery pack, the computer-executable instructions being written to: obtain sampled terminal voltage data (V) for the lithium ion battery pack; obtain sampled terminal current (I) data for the lithium ion battery pack; calculate a vector quantity .phi.
(k) in accordance with the relationship .phi.
(k)=[dt(k)V(k -1), I(k) -I (k -1)dt(k)I(k -1), dt(k)U(k -1)].sup.T , where k indicates a present time step, T indicates a matrix transpose, and U( ) indicates a unit step function; calculate battery parameters .theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, .theta..sub.3 ,and .theta..sub.4 in accordance with the relationship V(k)-V(k -1)=.theta..sup.T .phi.
(k), where .theta.=[.theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, .theta..sub.3 , .theta..sub.4].sup.T and T indicates a matrix transpose; and generate a present SOC value from the battery parameters .theta..sub.1 and .theta..sub.4; wherein .theta..sub.1=-B=-1/.tau., where .tau.
is a double layer time constant for the battery; .theta..sub.2=R; .theta..sub.3=BR +A; and .theta..sub.4=BV.sub.oc.
The diagnostic and control system of claim 8, the computer-executable instructions being written to: obtain sampled battery temperature data for the lithium ion battery pack; and generate the present SOC value from a present V.sub.oc, value and the sampled battery temperature data.
The diagnostic and control system of claim 8, the computer-executable instructions being written to adaptively update the present SOC value by repeating over time the steps of obtaining sampled terminal voltage data, obtaining sampled terminal current data, calculating a vector quantity, calculating battery parameters, and generating a present SOC value.
The diagnostic and control system of claim 8, the computer-executable instructions being written to: provide an arbitrary initial terminal voltage value; provide an arbitrary initial terminal current value; and set an initial condition for generation of the present SOC value, the initial condition being based upon the arbitrary initial terminal voltage value and the arbitrary initial terminal current value.
The diagnostic and control system of claim 8, the computer-executable instructions being written to: compare the present SOC value to a threshold value; and if the present SOC value is less than the threshold value, initiate charging of the lithium ion battery pack.
Nanocrystal oxide/glass composite mesoporous powder or thin film, process  for producing the same, and utilizing the powder or thin film, various  devices, secondary battery and lithium storing device
The present invention aims to realize (1) manufacture of a mesoporous composite powder or thin film composed of nanocrystalline metal oxide--glass having a three-dimensional structure with a large specific surface area, (2) construction of a porous structure framework with nanocrystalline metal oxide crystal and a slight amount of glass phase (SiO.sub.2 or P.sub.2O.sub.5, B.sub.2O.sub.3), (3) control of crystal growth of metal oxide with a slight amount of glass phase (SiO.sub.2 or P.sub.2O.sub.5, B.sub.2O.sub.3), (4) simplification of the manufacturing process, and (5) use thereof in manufacture of a lithium intercalation electric device, photocatalytic device, solar battery and energy storage device.
Provided are a nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite powder or thin film having a three-dimensional structure with regularly arranged mesopores, and a secondary battery comprising the same.
A nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite powder or film having a three-dimensional structure with regularly arranged mesopores and in which a glass phase contains P.sub.2O.sub.5.
A nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite powder or film having a hexagonal or cubic three-dimensional structure and in which a glass phase contains P.sub.2O.sub.5.
A nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite powder or film according to claim 2, wherein a porous structure framework contains uniform nanocrystal oxides.
A nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite powder or film according to claim 2, wherein the powder or film has a large specific surface area in a range of 50 to 400 m.sup.2/g.
A manufacturing method of nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite powder according to claim 1, comprising the steps of: using a block macromolecule or interface activating agent as a template, and adding hydrochloric acid (HCl) to an aqueous solution of metal alkoxide, metal chloride, or PO(OC.sub.2H.sub.5).sub.3 or a solution obtained by dissolving these in alcohol such as ethanol; manufacturing powder having a glass phase metal oxide--inorganic oxide composite mesostructure with a sol-gel process; maturing and gelling this between room temperature and 90.degree.
C.; removing the block macromolecule or interface activating agent by performing heat treatment thereto in the atmosphere at 350 to 400.degree.
C. and manufacturing a glass phase metal oxide--glass phase mesoporous composite film; and additionally performing heat treatment thereto at 400 to 700.degree.
C. so as to change the phase of the glass phase metal oxide into crystallite.
A method according to claim 5, wherein an inorganic oxide of a stable glass phase is P.sub.2O.sub.5.
A method according to claim 5, wherein a dissimilar metal oxide selected from a group consisting of MnO.sub.2, NiO, Fe.sub.2O.sub.3, CuO, Li.sub.2O, WO.sub.3 and SnO.sub.2 is added in a slight amount at a synthesizing stage, and the mesoporous powder is formed from a nanocrystal oxide, a glass phase of inorganic oxide, and said dissimilar metal oxide having a multicomponent glass phase.
A method according to claim 5, wherein metal alkoxide or metal chloride is Ti(OC.sub.3H.sub.7).sub.4, Zr(OC.sub.4H.sub.9).sub.4, NbCl.sub.5, LiCl, NiCl.sub.2, FeCl.sub.3, CuCl.sub.2, MnCl.sub.2, SnCl.sub.4 or WCl.sub.5.
A method according to claim 5, wherein said powder is used in the manufacture of a lithium battery, lithium intercalation electric device, photocatalytic device, solar battery, or energy storage device.
A manufacturing method of nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite film according to claim 1, comprising the steps of: using a block macromolecule or interface activating agent as a template, adding hydrochloric acid (HCl) to metal alkoxide, metal chloride, or an aqueous solution of PO(OC.sub.2H.sub.5).sub.3 or a solution obtained by dissolving these in alcohol such as ethanol, and obtaining a sol solution by performing hydrolysis while adjusting the pH; forming a film having a glass phase metal oxide-inorganic oxide-block macromolecule or interface activating agent composite mesostructure on a substrate by delivering the sol solution in drops onto a substrate, rapidly rotating the substrate, and evaporating and gelling the solvent; maturing and gelling this between room temperature and 90.degree.
C.; removing the block macromolecule or interface activating agent by performing heat treatment thereto in the atmosphere at 350 to 400.degree.
C. and manufacturing a glass phase metal oxide--glass phase mesoporous composite film; and additionally performing heat treatment thereto at 400 to 700.degree.
C. so as to change the phase of the glass phase metal oxide into crystallite.
A method according to claim 10, wherein an inorganic oxide of a stable glass phase is P.sub.2O.sub.5.
A method according to claim 10, wherein a dissimilar metal oxide selected from a group consisting of MnO.sub.2, NiO, Fe.sub.2O.sub.3, CuO, Li.sub.2O, WO.sub.3 and SnO.sub.2 is added in a slight amount at a synthesizing stage, and the mesoporous film is formed from a nanocrystal oxide, a glass phase of inorganic oxide, and said dissimilar metal oxide having a multicomponent glass phase.
A method according to claim 10, wherein metal alkoxide or metal chloride is Ti(OC.sub.3H.sub.7).sub.4, Zr(OC.sub.4H.sub.9).sub.4, NbCl.sub.5, LiCl, NiCl.sub.2, FeCl.sub.3, CuCl.sub.2, MnCl.sub.2, SnCl.sub.4 or WCl.sub.5.
A method according to claim 10, wherein said film is used in the manufacture of a lithium battery, lithium intercalation electric device, photocatalytic device, solar battery, or energy storage device.
A secondary battery having said nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite film according to claim 1, said film forming a nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite electrode of said secondary battery.
The secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the average diameter of said mesopores is 2 nm to 10 nm.
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein a framework of the nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite electrode has a hexagonal or cubic structure and contains uniform crystallite oxides of several nano-orders.
A secondary battery according to claim 17, wherein a thickness of a wall of the framework is 2 nm to 9 nm.
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the nanocrystal oxide is one or more types of metal oxides selected from the group consisting of TiO.sub.2, NiO, MnO.sub.2, FeO, Fe.sub.2O.sub.3, Fe.sub.3O.sub.4, CoO, CoO.sub.2, CrO.sub.2, CO.sub.3O.sub.4, WO.sub.3, SnO and SnO.sub.2.
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the glass phase includes one or more inorganic oxides selected from the group consisting of SiO.sub.2 and B.sub.2O.sub.3.
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the glass phase is a multicomponent glass phase containing one or more metal oxides selected from the group consisting of MnO.sub.2, NiO, Fe.sub.2O.sub.3, CuO, Li.sub.2O, WO.sub.3 and SnO.sub.2 at a molar ratio of 2% to 60% in relation to the glass phase.
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein both an ionic conductive path and electronic conductive path are provided in a framework of the nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite electrode by adding ion conductive or electron conductive dissimilar metal oxides in a network-shaped glass phase at a molar ratio of 2% to 60% in relation to the glass phase.
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite is used as the electrode of the secondary battery, and its energy density of charging or discharging is able to maintain a rate of more than 60% of 0.1 A/g even when increasing the charging or discharging rate to ten times 0.1 A/g (1.0 A/g ), and even one hundred times 0.1 A/g (10 A/g ).
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite is used as the electrode of the secondary battery so as to increase the surface area, and the charging/discharging capacity has a large capacity of 1.0 to 5.0 times the maximum theoretical capacity in relation to active oxides selected from the group consisting of TiO.sub.2, NiO, MnO.sub.2, FeO, Fe.sub.2O.sub.3, Fe.sub.3O.sub.4, CoO, CoO.sub.2, CrO.sub.2, Co.sub.3O.sub.4, WO.sub.3, SnO and SnO.sub.2.
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite is used as the electrode of the secondary battery, and a high reversible ratio of 95% or higher is realized even when increasing the charging or discharging rate to ten times 0.1 A/g (1.0 A/g ), and even one hundred times 0.1 A/g (10 A/g).
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite is used as the electrode of lithium, and a high reversible capacity of 60% to 70% or higher of the initial capacity is realized after a charging/discharging cycle of several hundred cycles even when increasing the charging or discharging rate to ten times 0.1 A/g (1.0 A/g ), and even one hundred times 0.1 A/g (10 A/g).
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein a nanocrystal oxide--a glass phase of inorganic oxide--dissimilar metal oxide to which a slight amount of dissimilar metal oxide was added has a high reversible capacity at a rate of 40% to 70% or higher of 0.1 A/g even when the charging/discharging rate is increased to a rate of one hundred times, five hundred times or one thousand times 0.1 A/g.
A secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the battery has a high reversible ratio, r >95%.
A nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite powder or film according to claim 1, wherein a porous structure framework contains uniform nanocrystal oxides.
A nanocrystal oxide--glass mesoporous composite powder or film according to claim 1, wherein the powder or film has a large specific surface area in a range of 50 to 400 m.sup.2/g.
Redox shuttle for rechargeable lithium-ion cell
A redox chemical shuttle comprising an aromatic compound substituted with at least one tertiary carbon organic group and at least one alkoxy group (for example, 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene) provides repeated overcharge protection in rechargeable lithium-ion cells.
A lithium ion cell electrolyte comprising a charge carrying medium, lithium salt and cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene.
An electrolyte according to claim 1 wherein the charge carrying medium comprises ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, dimethyl carbonate, diethyl carbonate, dimethoxyethane or combination thereof and the lithium salt comprises LiPF.sub.6, lithium bis(oxalato)borate or combination thereof.
An electrolyte according to claim 1 wherein the redox chemical shuttle has an electrochemical potential from about 3.7 to about 4.7 V vs. Li/Li.sup.+.
An electrolyte according to claim 1 wherein the redox chemical shuttle provides overcharge protection in a lithium-ion cell after at least 20 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the shuttle to its radical cation and an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the cell capacity during each cycle.
An electrolyte according to claim 1 wherein the redox chemical shuttle can provide overcharge protection in a lithium-ion cell after at least 100 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the shuttle to its radical cation and an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the cell capacity during each cycle.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell comprising a negative electrode; positive electrode; and an electrolyte comprising charge carrying medium, lithium salt and cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising an aromatic compound substituted with at least one tertiary carbon organic group and at least one alkoxy group and having an electrochemical potential vs. Li/Li.sup.+ that is greater than that of the positive electrode material.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 6 wherein the negative electrode comprises graphite or Li.sub.4/3Ti.sub.5/3O.sub.4 and the positive electrode comprises LiFePO.sub.4, LiMnPO.sub.4 or LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 6 wherein the aromatic compound has a single organic ring.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 6 wherein the aromatic compound is substituted with at least two tertiary carbon groups and at least two alkoxy groups, each tertiary carbon group independently having up to 12 carbon atoms and each alkoxy group independently having up to 10 carbon atoms.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 6 wherein the aromatic compound comprises 2-tert-butyl-anisole, 3-tert-butyl-anisole, 4-tert-butyl-anisole, 1-nitro-3-tert-butyl-2-methoxybenzene, 1-cyano-3-tert-butyl-2-methoxybenzene, 1,4-di-tert-butyl-2-methoxybenzene, 5-tert-butyl-1,3-dinitro-2-methoxybenzene, 1,3,5-tri-tert-butyl-2-methoxybenzene, 2-tert-pentyl-anisole, 2-tert-butyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene, 2,3-di-tert-butyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene, 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene, 2,5-di-tert-pentyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene, 2,5-di-tert-butyl-3,6-di-nitro-1,4-dimethoxybenzene, 2,5-di-tert-butyl-3,6-di-cyano-1,4-dimethoxybenzene, 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-diethoxybenzene, 4-tert-butyl-1,2-dimethoxybenzene, 4,5-di-tert-butyl-1,2-dimethoxybenzene, 4,5-di-tert-pentyl-1,2-dimethoxybenzene, 4,5-di-tert-butyl-1,2-diethoxybenzene or 4,8-di-tert-butyl-1,5-dimethoxynaphthalene.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 6 wherein the aromatic compound comprises 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 6 wherein the positive electrode has a recharge plateau and the redox chemical shuttle has a redox potential about 0.3 to about 0.6 V above the positive electrode recharge plateau.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 6 wherein the redox chemical shuttle can provide overcharge protection in a lithium-ion cell after at least 100 charge-discharge cycles at a charging voltage sufficient to oxidize the shuttle to its radical cation and an overcharge charge flow equivalent to 100% of the cell capacity during each cycle.
An electrical or electronic device comprising a rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 6 without electronic overcharge protection circuitry.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell comprising a negative electrode, positive electrode comprising LiFePO.sub.4, electrolyte and a cyclable redox chemical shuttle comprising an aromatic compound substituted with at least one tertiary carbon organic group and at least one alkoxy group and having an electrochemical potential vs. Li/Li.sup.+ that is greater than that of LiFePO.sub.4.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 15 wherein the positive electrode has a recharge plateau and the redox chemical shuttle has a redox potential about 0.3 to about 0.6 V above the positive electrode recharge plateau.
A rechargeable lithium-ion cell according to claim 15 wherein the redox chemical shuttle comprises 2,5-di-tert-butyl-1,4-dimethoxybenzene.
Lithium-ion cell with a wide operating temperature range
A lithium-ion rechargeable cell is described which contains an electrolyte comprising a pyrazolium cation, an imidazolium cation, or a combination thereof, as well as lithium ion, and at least one non-Lewis acid derived counter-ion and which has a ratio of cathode capacity to anode capacity of 1 or less, 1 or greater, and preferably about 1.3 or greater.
Electrochemical cells containing an anode, a cathode, and the ionic liquid electrolytes preferably have effective charge/discharge capacity and charging efficiency at low temperatures and at high temperatures.
An electrochemical cell comprising an anode, a cathode, and electrolyte wherein said cell has a ratio of cathode capacity to anode capacity of 1.2 or greater, wherein said electrolyte is an ionic liquid containing a dissolved lithium salt and comprises a non-Lewis acid derived anion.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said ratio is 1.2 to 3.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said ratio is 1.3 or greater.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said ratio is 1.5 or greater.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said ratio is 1.3 to 3.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said ratio is 1.3 to 2.0.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte further comprises a pyrazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said non-Lewis acid derived anion comprises an imide, a BETI, methide, TF or any combination thereof, and forms a lithium salt selected from Liimide, LiBETI, Limethide or LiTF or a combination thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte comprises a binary salt mixture comprising a mixture of single salts, at least one of which contains a pyrazolium cation or an imidazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 9, wherein said binary salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said pyrazolium cation or said imidazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 10, wherein said second cation is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBETI, Liimide, Limethide, or LiTF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 10, wherein said pyrazolium cation or said imidazolium cation and said second cation are both in the form of a salt and at least one of the two salts comprises DMIBETI, EMIBETI, DMIimide, EMIimide DMImethide, EMImethide, DMITF, or EMITF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said anode comprises a lithium intercalated electrode material.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said anode comprises Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said cathode comprises Li.sub.xMn.sub.2O.sub.4; Li.sub.xCoO.sub.2; modified Li.sub.xMn.sub.2O.sub.4 electrodes; Li.sub.xMn.sub.2-xCu.sub.xO.sub.4, wherein 0.1<x<0.5; LiM.sub.0.02Mn.sub.1.98O.sub.4, wherein M is selected from B, Cr, Fe, and Ti; a transition metal oxide; or an electrochemically active conductive polymer.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said cathode is LiCoO.sub.2, or LiFePO.sub.4.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte further comprises at least one pyrazolium cation, an imidazolium cation, or a combination thereof; and wherein said electrochemical cell at least charges and discharges over a temperature range of from about 20.degree.
C. to about 100.degree.
C. 18.
The electrochemical cell of claim 17, wherein said electrochemical cell at least charges and discharges over a temperature range of from about 20.degree.
C. to about 125.degree.
C. 19.
The electrochemical cell of claim 17, wherein said electrochemical cell at least charges and discharges over a temperature range of from about 20.degree.
C. to about 150.degree.
C. 20.
The electrochemical cell of claim 17, wherein said electrochemical cell at least charges and discharges over a temperature range of from about 20.degree.
C. to about 170.degree.
C. 21.
The electrochemical cell of claim 17, wherein said electrochemical cell at least charges and discharges over a temperature range of from about 50.degree.
C. to about 120.degree.
C. 22.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, said electrolyte further comprising an imidazolium cation-containing molten salt, together with a dissolved lithium salt, wherein said electrolyte exhibits an oxidation limit of greater than about 5V vs. lithium, reduction voltage less than 1.5 V vs. lithium, and a thermal stability of up to at least about 50.degree.
C. 23.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22, wherein said thermal stability is up to at least about 100.degree.
C. 24.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22, wherein said thermal stability is up to at least about 150.degree.
C. 25.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22, wherein said thermal stability is up to at least about 200.degree.
C. 26.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22, wherein said thermal stability is up to at least about 250.degree.
C. 27.
The electrochemical cell of claim 22, wherein said thermal stability is up to at least about 300.degree.
C. 28.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, said electrolyte further comprising a pyrazolium cation-containing molten salt, together with a dissolved lithium salt, wherein said electrolyte exhibits an oxidation limit of greater than about 5V vs. lithium, reduction voltage less than 1.5 V vs. lithium, and a thermal stability of up to at least about 50.degree.
C. 29.
The electrochemical cell of claim 28, wherein said thermal stability is up to at least about 100.degree.
C. 30.
The electrochemical cell of claim 28, wherein said thermal stability is up to at least about 150.degree.
C. 31.
The electrochemical cell of claim 28, wherein said thermal stability is up to at least about 200.degree.
C. 32.
The electrochemical cell of claim 28, wherein said thermal stability is up to at least about 250.degree.
C. 33.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte further comprises a cation having the formula: ##STR00004## wherein R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 represent independently an alkyl group comprising 1-12 carbon atoms, and R.sub.3, R.sub.4, and R.sub.5 represent independently, H or an alkyl group comprising from 1 to about 5 carbon atoms.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said non-Lewis acid derived anion is: ##STR00005## where R.sub.6, R.sub.7, R.sub.8 and R.sub.10 are separate halogenated alkyl groups of 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and R.sub.9 is a halogenated alkylene moiety of 2 to 6 carbon atoms.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte comprises a ternary molten salt mixture comprising a mixture of three single salts, at least one of which contains said imidazolium cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 35, wherein said ternary molten salt mixture comprises a second cation which differs from said imidazolium cation, and a third cation which differs from said imidazolium cation and said second cation.
The electrochemical cell of claim 36, wherein at least one of said second and third cations is in the form of a lithium salt selected from LiBETI, Liimide, Limethide, LiTF or a combination thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 36, wherein said imidazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and the anions of the three salts are the same.
The electrochemical cell of claim 38, wherein said imidazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and at least one of the three salts comprises DMPBETI, DMIBETI, EMPBETI, EMIBETI, DMPimide, DMIimide, EMPimide, EMIimide, DMPmethide, DMImethide, EMPmethide, EMImethide, DMPTF, DMITF, EMPTF, or EMITF.
The electrochemical cell of claim 38, wherein said imidazolium cation, said second cation, and said third cation are in the form of a salt, and at least one of the three salts comprises DMPBETI, DMIBETI, EMPBETI, EMIBETI, DMPimide, DMIimide, EMPimide, EMIimide, DMPmethide, DMImethide, EMPmethide, EMImethide, DMPTF, DMITF, or EMPTF, and another one of the three salts comprises LiBETI, Li imide, Limethide, LiTF or a combination thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein pyrazolium cation, imidazolium cation, or a combination thereof is present as a pyrazolium salt, an imidazolium salt, or a pyrazolium and imidazolium salts, together with said dissolved lithium salt, which are distributed throughout a polymer matrix.
Silver manganese vanadium oxide electrodes for lithium batteries
This invention relates to electrodes for non-aqueous lithium cells and batteries.
More specifically, the invention relates to silver manganese vanadium oxide positive electrodes for such cells and batteries.
The silver manganese vanadium oxide electrodes may contain substituents or dopants to improve the electrochemical properties of the electrodes, cells and batteries.
The silver manganese vanadium oxide electrodes optionally contain silver powder and/or silver foil to assist in current collection at the electrodes and to improve the power capability of the cells or batteries.
The invention also includes a method for preparing the electrodes by decomposition of a permanganate salt, such as AgMnO.sub.4, KMnO.sub.4, NaMnO.sub.4 or LiMnO.sub.4 in the presence of a compound or compounds containing silver and/or vanadium.
A positive electrode for a non-aqueous lithium electrochemical cell, comprising a silver-manganese-vanadium oxide compound substantially amorphous to X-rays having the general formula Ag.sub.xMn.sub.aV.sub.bO.sub.z in which the values of x, a, and b are greater than or equal to one, the maximum value of z is less than or equal to 8.5 and is determined by the oxidation state of the silver ions having a maximum value of two, the oxidation state of the manganese ions having a maximum value of four, and the oxidation state of the vanadium ions having a maximum value of five.
The positive electrode of claim 1, wherein the capacity is greater than about 400 mAh/g when discharged to 1.0 volts.
The positive electrode of claim 1, wherein the capacity is greater than about 450 mAh/g when discharged to 1.0 volts.
The positive electrode of claim 1, and further including Ag as powder or foil and/or cation or anion substituents present up to about 20 atom %.
The positive electrode of claim 4, wherein the cation substituents are selected from Li, Mg, Al, or first or second row transition metals.
The positive electrode of claim 4, wherein the anion substituent is F. 7.
The positive electrode of claim 4, wherein Cu is substituted for some of the Ag.
A non-aqueous electrochemical cell having a positive electrode of claim 4, and a negative electrode containing Li or a compound thereof and an electrolyte containing a Li salt.
A battery of a plurality of electrochemical cells of claim 8 connected in parallel or series.
A method whereby the positive electrode of claim 1 is prepared by the decomposition of a permanganate precursor in the presence of one or more silver components or compounds, one or more vanadium components or compounds, optionally in the presence of one or more manganese components or compounds, and/or one or more cation or anion substituents and/or metal oxide components or compounds.
The method according to claim 10, in which the permanganate precursor is selected from one or more of AgMnO.sub.4, KMnO.sub.4, NaMnO.sub.4 and LiMnO.sub.4.
Alloy compositions for lithium ion batteries
Alloy compositions, lithium ion batteries, and methods of making lithium ion batteries are described.
The lithium ion batteries have anodes that contain an alloy composition that includes a) silicon, b) aluminum, c) transition metal, d) tin, and e) a fifth element that contains yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof.
The alloy composition is a mixture of an amorphous phase that includes silicon and a nanocrystalline phase that includes an intermetallic compound of tin and the fifth element.
A lithium ion battery comprising a cathode, an anode, and an electrolyte in electrical communication with the anode and the cathode, wherein the anode comprises an alloy composition comprising a) silicon in an amount of 35 to 70 mole percent; b) aluminum in an amount of 1 to 45 mole percent; c) a transition metal in an amount of 5 to 25 mole percent; d) tin in an amount of 1 to 15 mole percent; and e) a fifth element comprising yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof in an amount of 2 to 15 mole percent, wherein each mole percent is based on a total number of moles of all elements except lithium in the alloy composition; and wherein the alloy composition is a mixture of an amorphous phase comprising silicon and a nanocrystalline phase comprising an intermetallic compound of tin and the fifth element.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the amorphous phase further comprises aluminum and the transition metal.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the fifth element comprises cerium, lanthanum, praseodymium, neodymium, or a combination thereof.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the nanocrystalline phase is substantially free of tin in an elemental form.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition further comprises less than 1 mole percent alkaline earth metal.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition further comprises an alkaline metal.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition comprises particles having a maximum average dimension of 1 to 60 micrometers.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition has a single amorphous phase and a single nanocrystalline phase.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition is of Formula I Si.sub.aAl.sub.bT.sub.cSn.sub.dM.sub.eLi.sub.f (I) wherein a is a number in the range of 35 to 70; b is a number in the range of 1 to 45; T is a transition metal; c is a number in the range of 5 to 25; d is a number in the range of 1 to 15; M is yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof; e is a number in the range of 2 to 15; the sum of a+b+c+d+e is equal to 100; and f is a number in the range of 0 to [4.4(a+d)+b].
The lithium ion battery of claim 9, wherein the variable a is a number in the range of 40 to 65; b is a number in the range of 1 to 25; c is a number in the range of 5 to 25; d is a number in the range of 1 to 15; and e is a number in the range of 2 to 15.
The lithium ion battery of claim 9, wherein the variable a is a number in the range of 35 to 55; b is a number in the range of 25 to 45; c is a number in the range of 5 to 25; d is a number in the range of 1 to 15; and e is a number in the range of 2 to 15.
The lithium ion battery of claim 9, wherein the variable a is a number in the range of 55 to 65; b is a number in the range of 10 to 20; c is a number in the range of 5 to 25; d is a number in the range of 1 to 15; and e is a number in the range of 2 to 15.
The lithium ion battery of claim 9, wherein the anode further comprises an organic binder comprising a polyimide.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the anode further comprises lithium metal.
A battery pack comprising at least one lithium ion battery according to claim 1.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the nanocrystalline phase is substantially free of silicon.
A method of preparing a lithium ion battery, said method comprising: providing an alloy composition comprising a) silicon in an amount of 35 to 70 mole percent; b) aluminum in an amount of 1 to 45 mole percent; c) a transition metal in an amount of 5 to 25 mole percent; d) tin in an amount of 1 to 15 mole percent; and e) yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof in an amount of 2 to 15 mole percent, wherein each mole percent is based on a total number of moles of all elements except lithium in the alloy composition and wherein the alloy composition is a mixture of an amorphous phase comprising silicon and a nanocrystalline phase comprising an intermetallic compound of tin and the fifth element; providing a cathode and an electrolyte, wherein the electrolyte is in electrical communication with both the cathode and the anode.
The method of claim 17, wherein providing the alloy composition comprises melt spinning the silicon, aluminum, tin, transition metal element, and fifth element.
The method of claim 17, wherein providing the alloy composition comprises initially forming a totally amorphous precursor material and then annealing the precursor material to prepare the mixture of the amorphous phase and the nanocrystalline phase.
The method of claim 17, wherein providing the alloy comprises forming a precursor material that comprises i) amorphous material; ii) the nanocrystalline phase comprising tin and the fifth element; and iii) crystalline elemental tin; and annealing the precursor material to remove the crystalline elemental tin.
The method of claim 17, wherein the nanocrystalline phase is substantially free of silicon.
An alloy composition comprising a) silicon in an amount of 35 to 70 mole percent; b) aluminum in an amount of 1 to 45 mole percent; c) a transition metal in an amount of 5 to 25 mole percent; d) tin in an amount of 1 to 15 mole percent; and e) a fifth element comprising yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof in an amount of 2 to 15 mole percent, wherein each mole percent is based on a total number of moles of all elements except lithium in the alloy composition; and wherein the alloy composition is a mixture of an amorphous phase comprising silicon and a nanocrystalline intermetallic compound of tin and the fifth element.
The alloy composition of claim 22, wherein the nanocrystalline phase is substantially free of silicon.
Alloy composition for lithium ion batteries
Alloy compositions, lithium ion batteries, and methods of making lithium ion batteries are described.
The lithium ion batteries have anodes that contain an alloy composition that includes a) silicon, b) aluminum, c) transition metal, d) tin, e) indium, and f) a sixth element that contains yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof.
The alloy composition is a mixture of an amorphous phase that includes silicon and a crystalline phase that includes an intermetallic compound of 1) tin, 2) indium, and 3) the sixth element.
A lithium ion battery comprising a cathode, an anode, and an electrolyte in electrical communication with both the anode and the cathode, wherein the anode comprises an alloy composition comprising a) silicon in an amount of 35 to 70 mole percent; b) aluminum in an amount of 1 to 45 mole percent; c) a transition metal in an amount of 5 to 25 mole percent; d) tin in an amount of 1 to 15 mole percent; e) indium in an amount up to 15 mole percent; and f) a sixth element comprising yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof in an amount of 2 to 15 mole percent, wherein each mole percent is based on a total number of moles of all elements except lithium in the alloy composition; wherein the alloy composition is a mixture of an amorphous phase comprising silicon and a nanocrystalline phase comprising an intermetallic compound with tin, indium, and the sixth element, and wherein the nanocrystalline phase comprises crystalline materials having a maximum dimension of about 5 to about 50 nanometers.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the amorphous phase further comprises aluminum and the transition metal.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the sixth element comprises cerium, lanthanum, praseodymium, neodymium, or a combination thereof.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the nanocrystalline phase is substantially free of silicon.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the nanocrystalline phase is substantially free of elemental tin, elemental indium, a binary tin-indium compound, or a combination thereof.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition further comprises less than 1 mole percent alkaline earth metal.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition further comprises an alkaline metal.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition comprises particles having a maximum average dimension of 1 to 60 micrometers.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition has a single amorphous phase and a single nanocrystalline phase.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the alloy composition is of Formula I Si.sub.aAl.sub.bT.sub.cSn.sub.dIn.sub.eM.sub.fLi.sub.g (I) wherein a is a in the range of 35 to 70; b is a number in the range of 1 to 45; T is a transition metal; c is a number in the range of 5 to 25; d is a number in the range of 1 to 15; e is a number up to 15; M is yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof; f is a number in the range of 2 to 15; the sum of a+b+c+d+e+f is equal to 100; and g is a number in the range of 0 to [4.4(a+d+e)+b].
The lithium ion battery of claim 10, wherein the variable a is a number in the range of 40 to 65; b is a number in the range of 1 to 25; c is a number in the range of 5 to 25; d is a number in the range of 1 to 15; e is a number up to 15; and f is a number in the range of 2 to 15.
The lithium ion battery of claim 10, wherein the variable a is a number in the range of 40 to 55; b is a number in the range of 25 to 45; c is a number in the range of 5 to 25; d is a number in the range of 1 to 15; e is a number up to 15; and f is a number in the range of 2 to 15.
The lithium ion battery of claim 10, wherein the variable a is a number in the range of 55 to 65; b is a number in the range of 10 to 20; c is a number in the range of 5 to 25; d is a number in the range of 1 to 15; e is a number up to 15; and f is a number in the range of 2 to 15.
The lithium ion battery of claim 10, wherein the anode further comprises an organic binder comprising a polyimide.
The lithium ion battery of claim 1, wherein the anode further comprises lithium metal.
A battery pack comprising at least one lithium ion battery according to claim 1.
A method of preparing a lithium ion battery, said method comprising: providing an anode comprising an alloy composition comprising a) silicon in an amount of 35 to 70 mole percent; b) aluminum in an amount of 1 to 45 mole percent; c) a transition metal in an amount of 5 to 25 mole percent; d) tin in an amount of 1 to 15 mole percent; e) indium in an amount up to 15 mole percent; and f) yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof in an amount of 2 to 15 mole percent, wherein each mole percent is based on a total number of moles of all elements except lithium in the alloy composition and wherein the alloy composition is a mixture of an amorphous phase comprising silicon and a nanocrystalline phase comprising an intermetallic compound with tin, indium, and the sixth element; and providing a cathode and an electrolyte, wherein the electrolyte is in electrical communication with both the cathode and the anode, wherein the nanocrystalline phase comprises crystalline materials having a maximum dimension of about 5 to about 50 nanometers.
The method of claim 17, wherein providing the alloy composition comprises melt spinning the silicon, aluminum, tin, the transition metal element, and the sixth element.
The method of claim 17, wherein providing the alloy composition comprises initially forming a totally amorphous precursor material and then annealing the precursor material to prepare the mixture of the amorphous phase and the nanocrystalline phase.
The method of claim 17, wherein providing the alloy comprises: forming a precursor material that comprises (i) amorphous material; (ii) the nanocrystalline phase comprising tin, indium, and the sixth element; (iii) at least one additional crystalline phase that contains elemental tin, elemental indium, binary tin-indium, or a combination thereof; and annealing the precursor material to remove the additional crystalline phase.
The method of claim 17, wherein the nanocrystalline phase is substantially free of silicon.
An alloy composition comprising a) silicon in an amount of 35 to 70 mole percent; b) aluminum in an amount of 1 to 45 mole percent; c) a transition metal in an amount of 5 to 25 mole percent; d) tin in an amount of 1 to 15 mole percent; e) indium in an amount up to 15 mole percent; and f) a sixth element comprising yttrium, a lanthanide element, an actinide element, or a combination thereof in an amount of 2 to 15 mole percent, wherein each mole percent is based on a total number of moles of all elements except lithium in the alloy composition; and the alloy composition is a mixture of an amorphous phase comprising silicon and a nanocrystalline phase comprising an intermetallic compound with (1) tin, (2) indium, and (3) the sixth element, wherein the nanocrystalline phase comprises crystalline materials having a maximum dimension of about 5 to about 50 nanometers.
All-solid lithium battery
An all-solid lithium secondary battery has excellent reliability including safety.
However, in general, its energy density or output density is lower than that achieved by liquid electrolyte systems.
The all-solid lithium battery includes a lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte as an electrolyte.
The lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte is mainly composed of a sulfide, and the surface of a positive electrode active material is coated with a lithium ion-conducting oxide.
The advantages of the present invention are particularly significant when the positive electrode active material exhibits a potential of 3 V or more during operation of the all-solid lithium battery, i.e., when redox reaction occurs at a potential of 3 V or more.
An all-solid lithium battery comprising: a negative electrode, a lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte, and a positive electrode, wherein the lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte is mainly composed of a sulfide, and a positive electrode active material is coated with a lithium ion-conducting oxide so that the lithium ion-conducting oxide is interposed between the positive electrode active material and the solid electrolyte.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the positive electrode active material shows redox reaction at a potential of 3 V or more on a lithium electrode basis during operation of the all-solid lithium battery.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the lithium ion-conducting oxide is an oxide that does not show substantial electronic conduction but contains lithium and titanium.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte mainly composed of the sulfide has an ion conductivity of 1.times.10.sup.-3 S/cm or more at room temperature.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte mainly composed of the sulfide is free of iodide ions.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte mainly composed of the sulfide is a solid electrolyte mainly composed of two or more types of sulfides, and the lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte mainly composed of the sulfides used in a portion that contacts the positive electrode active material coated with the lithium ion-conducting oxide is free of iodide ions.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the positive electrode active material is a powder or a film.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the lithium ion-conducting oxide is amorphous.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the lithium ion-conducting oxide contains lithium and one or both of niobium and tantalum.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the lithium ion-conducting oxide is a lithium-containing oxide glass selected from the group consisting of lithium silicate, lithium phosphate, and lithium borate.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the coating is in the range of 1 nm to 100 nm.
The all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, wherein a mixture of a positive electrode active material powder coated with the lithium ion-conducting oxide and a lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte powder mainly composed of the sulfide is used as a positive electrode and a lithium ion-conducting solid electrolyte powder layer mainly composed of a sulfide is used as a separator.
A method for making a positive electrode used in the all-solid lithium battery according to claim 1, comprising: applying a solution containing an element to constitute a coating layer of lithium ion-conducting oxide or a suspension of time particles of the lithium ion-conducting oxide on a surface of a positive electrode active material, thereby obtaining a coated positive electrode active material, and heating the coated positive electrode active material at a temperature of 400.degree.
C. or less.
A method for making a positive electrode used in the all-solid lithium battery-according to claim 13, wherein the coating layer of the lithium ion-conducting oxide is formed on the surface of a positive electrode active material by a physical deposition technique.
Cathode materials for secondary (rechargeable) lithium batteries
The invention relates to materials for use as electrodes in an alkali-ion secondary (rechargeable) battery, particularly a lithium-ion battery.
The invention provides transition-metal compounds having the ordered-olivineor the rhombohedral NASICON structure and the polyanion (PO.sub.4).sup.3- as at least one constituent for use as electrode material for alkali-ion rechargeable batteries.
A synthesized cathode material for a rechargeable electrochemical cell comprising one or more compounds, at least one of the compounds with an olivine structure comprising the general formula LiMPO.sub.4, wherein M comprises Fe and up to 10% of one or more other metals.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein the cathode material has at least one additional discharge plateau other than about 3.45 Volts versus a lithium anode, the at least one additional discharge plateau corresponding to one of the one or more other metals and not a Fe.sup.3+/Fe.sup.2+ redox couple.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Mn.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein the compound with an olivine structure is contained in particles with a particle size on the nanometer scale.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein the compound with an olivine structure has a plurality of planes defined by zig-zag chains and linear chains, wherein lithium atoms occupy the linear chains of alternate planes of octahedral sites.
The cathode material according to claim 5, wherein M atoms occupy the zigzag chains of octahedral sites of alternate planes of octahedral sites.
The cathode material according to claim 3, wherein the cathode material has at least one discharge plateau at about 4.1 Volts versus lithium, corresponding to a Mn.sup.3+/Mn.sup.2+ couple.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Ti.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises a metal filled with two electron shells.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein the up to 10% one or more other metals comprises at least two additional metals.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Co. 12.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Ni.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the compounds with an olivine structure has the formula Li.sub.i-2xFe.sub.1-xTi.sub.xPO.sub.4.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein M comprises Fe and up to 10% of one or more other transition metals.
A rechargeable electrochemical cell comprising a cathode comprising one or more compounds, at least one of the compounds with an olivine structure comprising the general formula LiMPO.sub.4, wherein M comprises Fe and up to 10% of one or more other metals.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein the compound with an olivine structure is contained in particles with a particle size on the nanometer scale.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein the cathode has at least one additional discharge plateau other than about 3.45 Volts versus a lithium anode, the at least one additional discharge plateau corresponding to one of the one or more other metals metal and not a Fe.sup.3+/Fe.sup.2+ redox couple.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Mn.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 18, wherein the cathode material has at least one discharge plateau at about 4.1 Volts versus lithium, corresponding to a Mn.sup.3+/Mn.sup.2+ couple.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Ti.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises a metal filled with two electron shells.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein the up to 10% one or more other metals metal comprises at least two additional metals.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein the compound with an olivine structure has a plurality of planes defined by zig-zag chains and linear chains, wherein lithium atoms occupy the linear chains of alternate planes of octahedral sites.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 23, wherein M atoms occupy the zigzag chains of octahedral sites of alternate planes of octahedral sites.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Co. 26.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Ni.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 15, wherein at least one of the compounds with an olivine structure has the formula Li.sub.1-2xFe.sub.1-xTi.sub.xPO.sub.4.
The cathode material according to claim 15, wherein M comprises Fe and up to 10% of one or more other transition metals.
Overcharge and overdischarge protection in lithium-ion batteries
A lithium-ion battery comprising a first electrode made of cathodic material, a second electrode made of anodic material and an electrolyte, said lithium-ion battery containing an overcharge protection material consisting of redox molecules, characterized by the fact that said redox molecules have a reduction potential which is lower than said anodic material.
A lithium-ion battery comprising: a) a first electrode made of a cathodic material, b) a second electrode made of an anodic material, and c) an electrolyte, said lithium-ion battery including redox molecules in an amount and concentration so that the lithium-ion battery is protected from overcharging or overdischarging, wherein the redox molecules have a reduction potential which is lower than said anodic material; and wherein said redox molecules are benzophenone molecules.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein said anodic material is TiO.sub.2.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein said anodic material is selected from the group of intermetallic alloys, 3D-nanostructured metal oxides and Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 2 wherein said cathodic material is LiFePO.sub.4.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 2 wherein said cathodic material is LiCoO.sub.2.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein said redox molecules are in the form of an additive in the electrolyte.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein said redox molecules are embedded in a separator.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1, wherein the benzophenone molecules in the electrolyte has a diffusion coefficient of about 1.1.times.10.sup.-6 cm.sup.2/s.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1, wherein the redox molecules are present in the electrolyte at a concentration of 0.4 M. 10.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1, wherein the redox molecules are present in the electrolyte at a concentration of 10 mM.
A battery comprising: a) a first electrode including one or both of TiO.sub.2 or Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12; b) a second electrode including LiFePO.sub.4; and c) an electrolyte including LiClO.sub.4, Propylene Carbonate, and Dimethoxyethane; wherein benzophenone is dissolved in the electrolyte, and the benzophenone has a reduction potential that is lower than the first electrode.
The battery of claim 11, further including the benzophenone in an amount and concentration so that the lithium-ion battery is protected from overcharging or overdischarging, and a diffusion coefficient in an amount so that a shuttle current of the benzophenone is at least as great as a current which is charging the battery; wherein the benzophenone is unreactive toward components of the battery in both its oxidized and reduced forms; and wherein the benzophenone is stable so that the benzophenone sustains long term cycling.
The battery of claim 11, wherein the benzophenone is present in the electrolyte at a concentration of 0.4 M. 14.
The battery of claim 11, wherein the diffusion coefficient of the benzophenone in the LiClO.sub.4, Propylene Carbonate, and Dimethoxyethane, is about 1.1.times.10.sup.-6.
The battery of claim 11, wherein the second electrode further includes acetylene black, Polyvinylidene fluoride, and N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone.
The battery of claim 11, wherein the ratio of Propylene Carbonate to Dimethoxyethane is 2:1.
The battery of claim 13, wherein the ratio of Propylene Carbonate to Dimethoxyethane is 2:1.
The battery of claim 11, wherein the cutoff voltage during continuous charge/discharge cycling of the battery with the LiFePO.sub.4 electrode is 1.90V.
The battery of claim 16, wherein the benzophenone is present in the electrolyte at a concentration of 10 mM.
Lithium secondary battery including discharge unit
Provided is a lithium secondary battery including a discharge unit capable of delaying or preventing a battery explosion.
The lithium secondary battery includes a discharge unit disposed parallel to a battery body.
The discharge unit includes a first electrode connected to a positive electrode of the battery body, a second electrode connected to a negative electrode of the battery body, and a discharge material film, disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode, inducing a abrupt discharge above a predetermined temperature.
The discharge material film, e.g., a abrupt metal-insulator transition (MIT) material film can induce a abrupt discharge, thereby preventing or delaying a battery explosion.
A lithium secondary battery comprising: a battery body having a positive electrode and a negative electrode; and a discharge unit connected in parallel with the positive and negative electrodes, the discharge unit comprising: a first electrode connected to one of the positive electrode and the negative electrode of the battery body; a second electrode connected to the other of the positive electrode and the negative electrode of the battery body; and a discharge material film, connected between the first electrode and the second electrode, inducing a abrupt discharge above a predetermined temperature, wherein the first and second electrodes have comb-like structures with a plurality of recesses and protrusions such that the first electrode is engaged with the second electrode, and wherein the comb-like structures of the first and second electrodes cover a portion of the discharge material film, wherein the discharge material film is a abrupt metal-insulator transition material film having a transition resistance difference (.DELTA.R) of 10.sup.3 to 10.sup.5.OMEGA., and a metal-phase resistance of 500.OMEGA.
or less.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the abrupt metal-insulator transition material film is made of at least one selected from (i) an insulator, and a p-type inorganic compound semiconductor with low hole concentration, comprising oxygen, a semiconductor element selected from Group III-V or II-VI compounds, a transition metal element, a rare earth element, and a lanthanum element, (ii) an insulator and a p-type organic compound semiconductor with low hole concentration; and (iii) an insulator, a p-type semiconductor with low hole concentration, and a p-type oxide semiconductor with low hole concentration.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the abrupt metal-insulator transition material film is a vanadium oxide (VOx) film.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 3, wherein an insulator-to-metal transition temperature of the vanadium oxide (VOx) film is about 68.degree.
C. 5.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 1, wherein each of the first electrode and the second electrode is formed as a single layer or a multi-layer made of one selected from the group consisting of Mo, W, Al, Ni/Mo/Au, Cr/Au, Ni/Au, W/Au, Ti/Au/, Mo/Au, Ru/Au, and Ir/Au.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 1, wherein a distance between the first electrode and the second electrode is 3 to 100 .mu.m.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are separated from each other by a predetermined distance such that their opposing ends are parallel to each other.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 1, wherein when viewed from above, each of the first electrode and the second electrode has a comb-like structure with a plurality of recesses and protrusions so that the first electrode is engaged with the second electrode.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 1, wherein each of the first electrode and the second electrode is comprised of a plurality of sub-electrodes having the same shape, and the sub-electrodes of each of the first electrode and the second electrode are connected in parallel.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 9, wherein each of the sub-electrodes connected in parallel has a resistance of about 1.0 to 2.0.OMEGA.. 11.
A lithium secondary battery comprising: a battery body having a positive electrode and a negative electrode; a battery protection circuit having first and second terminals such that the second terminal is connected to the negative electrode of the battery body; a positive temperature coefficient (PTC) device connected in series between the positive electrode of the battery body and the first terminal of the battery protection circuit; and a discharge unit connected in parallel to the battery body, the discharge unit comprising: a first electrode connected to one of the positive electrode and the negative electrode of the battery body; a second electrode connected to the other of the positive electrode and the negative electrode of the battery body; and a discharge material film, connected between the first electrode and the second electrode, inducing a abrupt discharge above a predetermined temperature, wherein the discharge material film is a abrupt metal-insulator transition material film having a transition resistance difference (.DELTA.R) of 10.sup.3 to 10.sup.5.OMEGA., and a metal-phase resistance of 500.OMEGA.
or less.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 11, wherein the abrupt metal-insulator transition material film is made of at least one selected from (i) an insulator, and a p-type inorganic compound semiconductor with low hole concentration, comprising oxygen, a semiconductor element selected from Group III-V or II-VI compounds, a transition metal element, a rare earth element, and a lanthanum element, (ii) an insulator and a p-type organic compound semiconductor with low hole concentration; and (iii) an insulator, a p-type semiconductor with low hole concentration, and a p-type oxide semiconductor with low hole concentration.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 11, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are separated from each other by a predetermined distance such that their opposing ends are parallel to each other.
The lithium secondary battery of claim 11, wherein when viewed from above, each of the first electrode and the second electrode has a comb-like structure with a plurality of recesses and protrusions so that the first electrode is engaged with the second electrode.
A lithium secondary battery comprising: a battery body having a positive electrode and a negative electrode; a battery protection circuit having first and second terminals such that the second terminal is connected to the negative electrode of the battery body; a positive temperature coefficient (PTC) device disposed in series between the positive electrode of the battery body and the first terminal of the battery protection circuit; and a discharge unit disposed parallel to the battery body, the discharge unit comprising: a first electrode connected to one of the positive electrode and the negative electrode of the battery body; a second electrode connected to the other of the positive electrode and the negative electrode of the battery body; and a discharge material film, connected between the first electrode and the second electrode, inducing a abrupt discharge above a predetermined temperature, wherein the first and second electrodes have comb-like structures with a plurality of recesses and protrusions such that the first electrode is engaged with the second electrode, and wherein the comb-like structures of the first and second electrodes cover a portion of the discharge material film, and wherein the discharge material film is a abrupt metal-insulator transition material film having a transition resistance difference (.DELTA.R) of 10.sup.3 to 10.sup.5.OMEGA., and a metal-phase resistance of 500.OMEGA.
or less.
Negative active material for a non-aqueous electrolyte battery, and a  non-aqueous electrolyte battery comprising the same
A negative active material of a non-aqueous electrolyte battery includes a compound represented by formula 1: Li.sub.xM.sub.yV.sub.zO.sub.2+d (1) where 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2.5, 0<y.ltoreq.0.5, 0.5.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1.5, 0.ltoreq.d.ltoreq.0.5, and M is at least one element selected from the group consisting of Al, Cr, Mo, Ti, W, and Zr.
A negative active material of a non-aqueous electrolyte battery, the negative active material comprising a compound represented by formula 1: LixMyVzO2+d (1) where 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2.5, 0.01<y.ltoreq.0.05, 0.ltoreq.d.ltoreq.0.5, and M is at least one element selected from the group consisting of Al, Cr, Mo, Ti, W, and Zr, wherein the negative active material has a distance ratio between axes of approximately 2.5 to 6.5, before lithium intercalation, and when the negative active material is intercalated, the negative active material has a distance ratio between axes of approximately 3.5 to 7.0, after lithium intercalation, wherein the negative active material has a void volume ranging from 10''3 cc/g to 0.8 cc/g for a particle size of 0.1 to 10 gm; and wherein z=0.9-y.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material has a distance ratio between axes of approximately 3.0 to 6.2 before lithium intercalation, and, when the negative active material is intercalated, the negative active material has a distance ratio between axes of approximately 4.0 to 7.0 after lithium intercalation.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material is intercalated/deintercalated, and the negative active material has a change in crystal lattice volume less than or equal to 30% due to lithium intercalation and deintercalation.
The negative active material of claim 3, wherein the negative active material is intercalated/deintercalated, and the negative active material has a change in crystal lattice volume less than or equal to 27% due to lithium intercalation and deintercalation.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material has an average oxidation state of vanadium of +1 to +4.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material has a tapping density of 1 to 5 g/cc.
The negative active material of claim 6, wherein the negative active material has a tapping density of 1.2 to 4.5 g/cc.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material has an average diameter of 1 to 100 .mu.m.
The negative active material of claim 8, wherein the negative active material has an average diameter of 5 to 80 .mu.m.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material has a void volume ranging from 0.01 cc/g to 0.3 cclg for a particle size of 0.1 to 10 .mu.m.
The negative active material of claim 10, wherein the negative active material has a void volume ranging 0.1 cc/g to 0.8 cc/g for a particle size of 0.1 to 10 .mu.m.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material has a specific surface area of 0.01 to 10 m.sup.2/g.
The negative active material of claim 12, wherein the negative active material has a specific surface area of 0.01 to 5 m.sup.2/g.
The negative active material of claim 13, wherein the negative active material has a specific surface area of 0.1 to 5 m.sup.2/g.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material has a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction peak at a (003) plane of 0.5 or less, and a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction peak at a (104) plane of 0.5 or less.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material has a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction peak at a (003) plane of 0.3 or less, and a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction peak at a (104) plane of 0.4 or less.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material has, an X-ray diffraction intensity ratio l(003)/l(104) of an X-ray diffraction peak intensity at a (003) plane to an X-ray diffraction peak intensity at a (104) plane of 0.3 to 2.
The negative active material of claim 17, wherein the negative active material has an X-ray diffraction intensity ratio l(003)/l(104) of an X-ray diffraction peak intensity at a (003) plane to an X-ray diffraction peak intensity at a (104) plane of 0.5 to 1.5.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the positive active material has a 2.8 .ANG.<lattice constant of a-axis<2.9 .ANG.
and 14 .ANG.<lattice constant of c-axis<15 .ANG.. 20.
A non-aqueous electrolyte battery comprising: a positive electrode comprising a positive active material to intercalate/deintercalate lithium; a non-aqueous electrolyte; and a negative electrode comprising a negative active material including a compound represented by formula 1: Li.sub.xM.sub.yV.sub.zO.sub.2+d (1) where 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2.5, 0.01<y.ltoreq.0.05, 0.ltoreq.d.ltoreq.0.5, and M is at least one element selected from the group consisting of Al, Cr, Mo, Ti, W, and Zr, wherein the negative active material has a distance ratio between axes of approximately 2.5 to 6.5 before lithium intercalation, the negative active material is intercalated/deintercalated, and the negative active material has a distance ratio between axes of approximately 3.5 to 7 after lithium intercalation, wherein the negative active material has a void volume ranging 10.sup.-3 cc/g to 0.8 cc/g for a particle size of 0.1 to 10 .mu.m; and wherein z=0.9-y.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has a distance ratio between axes of approximately 3.0 to 6.2 before lithium intercalation, the negative active material is intercalated/deintercalated, and the negative active material has a distance ratio between axes of approximately 3.5 to 7.0 after lithium intercalation.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has a change in crystal lattice volume less than or equal to 30% due to lithium intercalation and deintercalation.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 22, wherein the negative active material has a change in crystal lattice volume less than or equal to 27% due to lithium intercalation and deintercalation.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has an average oxidation state of vanadium of +1 to +4.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the positive active material is at least one selected from compounds represented by formulas 2 to 13: Li.sub.xMn.sub.1-yM.sub.yA.sub.2 (2) Li.sub.xMn.sub.1-yM.sub.yO.sub.2-zX.sub.z (3) Li.sub.xMn.sub.2O.sub.4-zX.sub.z (4) Li.sub.xCo.sub.1-yM.sub.yA.sub.2 (5) Li.sub.xCo.sub.1-yM.sub.yO.sub.2-zX.sub.z (6) Li.sub.xNi.sub.1-yM.sub.yA.sub.2 (7) Li.sub.xNi.sub.1-yM.sub.yO.sub.2-zX.sub.z (8) Li.sub.xNi.sub.1-yCo.sub.yO.sub.2-zX.sub.z (9) Li.sub.xNi.sub.1-y-zCo.sub.yM.sub.zA.sub..alpha.
(10) Li.sub.xNi.sub.1-y-zCO.sub.yM.sub.zO.sub.2-.alpha.X.sub..alpha.
(11) Li.sub.xNi.sub.1-y-zMn.sub.yM.sub.zA.sub..alpha.
(12) Li.sub.xNi.sub.1-y-zMn.sub.yM.sub.zO.sub.2-.alpha.X.sub..alpha.
(13) where 0.90.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.1.1; 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5; 0.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.5; 0.ltoreq..alpha..ltoreq.2; M is at least one selected from the group consisting of Al, Ni, Co, Mn, Cr, Fe, Mg, Sr, V and rare earth elements; and A is selected from the group consisting of O, F, S and P; and X is F, S or P. 26.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the non-aqueous electrolyte includes at least one organic solvent.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the non-aqueous electrolyte includes at least one lithium salt selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiSbF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, LiCF.sub.3SO.sub.3, LiN(CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.3, Li(CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.2N, LiC.sub.4F.sub.9SO.sub.3, LiClO.sub.4, LiAlO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiN(C.sub.xF.sub.2x+1SO.sub.2) (where x are y are natural numbers), LiCl, and LiI.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has a tapping density of 1 to 5 glee.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has a tapping density of 1.2 to 4.5 glee.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has an average diameter of 1 to 100 .mu.M.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 30, wherein the negative active material has an average diameter of 5 to 80 .mu.m.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has a void volume ranging 0.01 cc/g to 0.3 cc/g for a particle size of 0.1 to 10 .mu.m.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 32, wherein the negative active material has a void volume ranging 0.1 cc/g to 0.8 cc/g for a particle size of 0.1 to 10 .mu.m.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has a specific area of 0.01 to 10 m.sup.2/g.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 34, wherein the negative active material has a specific surface area of 0.01 to 5 m.sup.2/g.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has a specific surface area of 0.1 to 5 m.sup.2/g.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction at a (003) plane of 0.5 or less, and a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction at a (104) plane of 0.5 or less.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 37, wherein the negative active material has a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction at a (003) plane of 0.3 or less, and a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction at a (104) plane of 0.4 or less.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the negative active material has an X-ray diffraction intensity ratio l(003)/l(104) of an X-ray diffraction peak intensity at a (003) plane to an X-ray diffraction peak intensity at a (104) plane of 0.3 to 2.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 39, wherein the negative active material has an X-ray diffraction intensity ratio l(003)/l(104) of an X-ray diffraction peak intensity at a (003) plane to an X-ray diffraction peak intensity at a (104) plane of 0.5 to 1.5.
The non-aqueous electrolyte battery of claim 20, wherein the positive active material has a 2.8 .ANG.<lattice constant of a-axis<2.9 .ANG.
and 14 .ANG.<lattice constant of c-axis<15 .ANG..
Metal oxide negative electrodes for lithium-ion electrochemical cells and  batteries
Provided are negative electrode compositions for lithium-ion electrochemical cells that include metal oxides and polymeric binders.
Also provided are electrochemical cells and battery packs that include electrodes made with these compositions.
A negative electrode composition comprising: a powdered material, wherein the powdered material includes a non-intercalating metal oxide selected from at least one of Fe.sub.2O.sub.3, CoO, and Co.sub.3O.sub.4, and wherein the metal oxide is capable of undergoing lithiation and delithiation; and a polymeric binder, wherein the polymeric binder includes at least one of a polyacrylic acid, a lithium polyacrylate, or a polyimide.
A negative electrode composition according to claim 1, further comprising an alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, rare earth metal, or a combination thereof.
A negative electrode composition according to claim 1, wherein the powdered material comprises an amorphous phase.
A negative electrode composition according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric binder includes lithium polyacrylate.
A lithium-ion electrochemical cell comprising: a positive electrode, an electrolyte; and a negative electrode that comprises a composition according to claim 1.
A lithium-ion electrochemical cell according to claim 5, wherein the negative electrode further comprises an alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, rare earth metal or a combination thereof.
A battery pack comprising at least one electrochemical cell according to claim 5.
A lithium-ion electrochemical cell according to claim 5, wherein the polymeric binder includes lithium polyacrylate.
A battery pack comprising at least one electrochemical cell according to claim 8.
An electronic device comprising the battery pack according to claim 9.
System and method for processing an end-of-life or reduced performance  energy storage and/or conversion device using a supercritical fluid
A method of refurbishing a lithium-containing energy storage and/or conversion device is disclosed, wherein the energy storage and/or conversion device includes electrodes and an electrolyte, and wherein the method includes substantially removing the electrolyte from the energy storage and/or conversion device, substantially removing waste products from surfaces of the electrodes, and adding a new quantity of electrolyte to the energy storage and/or conversion device.
A method of processing an energy storage and/or conversion device, comprising: discharging the energy storage and/or conversion device; removing an electrolyte from the energy storage and/or conversion device by extraction via a supercritical fluid; and adding a new quantity of electrolyte to the energy storage and/or conversion device after removing waste products from the energy storage and/or conversion device.
The method of claim 1, wherein discharging the energy storage and/or conversion device includes placing the energy storage and/or conversion device in an electrically conductive fluid.
The method of claim 1, wherein discharging the energy storage and/or conversion device includes discharging the energy storage and/or conversion device via external circuitry.
The method of claim 1, wherein removing the electrolyte from the energy storage and/or conversion device includes removing at least a portion of the electrolyte with a centrifuge before exposing the device to the supercritical fluid.
The method of claim 1, wherein removing the electrolyte from the energy storage and/or conversion device includes removing the electrolyte with a supercritical fluid using static extraction.
The method of claim 1, wherein the supercritical fluid comprises supercritical carbon dioxide.
The method of claim 1, wherein the supercritical fluid comprises an aprotic moiety.
The method of claim 1, wherein the energy storage and/or conversion device comprises a battery.
The method of claim 8, wherein the battery is for at least one of an electric vehicle and a hybrid electric vehicle.
The method of claim 1, further comprising recharging the energy storage and/or conversion device after adding a new quantity of electrolyte.
A method of refurbishing a used lithium-containing energy storage and/or conversion device, the energy storage and/or conversion device including electrodes and an electrolyte, the method comprising: removing at least a portion of the used electrolyte from the energy storage and/or conversion device with a supercritical fluid; and adding a new quantity of electrolyte to the energy storage and/or conversion device after removal of at least a portion of the used electrolyte.
The method of claim 11, further comprising discharging the energy storage and/or conversion device before removing the electrolyte.
The method of claim 12, wherein discharging the energy storage and/or conversion device includes placing the energy storage and/or conversion device in an electrically conductive fluid.
The method of claim 13, wherein placing the energy storage and/or conversion device in an electrically conductive fluid includes placing the energy storage and/or conversion device in an aqueous salt solution.
The method of claim 12, wherein discharging the energy storage and/or conversion device includes discharging the energy storage and/or conversion device via external electrical circuitry.
The method of claim 12, wherein discharging the energy storage and/or conversion device includes exposing the energy storage and/or conversion device to carbon dioxide thereby causing the production of oxalate within the energy storage and/or conversion device.
The method of claim 11, wherein removing at least a portion of the electrolyte includes removing at least some of the electrolyte by centrifuging the energy storage and/or conversion device.
The method of claim 11, wherein removing at least a portion of the electrolyte includes removing at least some of the electrolyte by exposing the electrolyte to a supercritical fluid using a static extraction.
The method of claim 11, wherein the supercritical fluid comprises supercritical carbon dioxide.
The method of claim 19, further comprising charging the energy storage and/or conversion device after adding a new quantity of electrolyte to the energy storage and/or conversion device.
In a hybrid electric or electric vehicle, a method of rejuvenating a battery having reduced performance, the method comprising: discharging the battery; removing electrolyte from the battery with a supercritical fluid; adding a new quantity of electrolyte to the battery; and recharging the battery.
The method of claim 21, wherein the electrolyte is removed via extraction with a fluid comprising supercritical carbon dioxide.
The method of claim 1, wherein removing the electrolyte from the energy storage and/or conversion device includes removing the electrolyte with a supercritical fluid using dynamic extraction.
The method of claim 11, wherein removing at least a portion of the electrolyte includes removing at least some of the electrolyte by exposing the electrolyte to a supercritical fluid using a dynamic extraction.
Cathode materials for secondary (rechargeable) lithium batteries
The invention relates to materials for use as electrodes in an alkali-ion secondary (rechargeable) battery, particularly a lithium-ion battery.
The invention provides transition-metal compounds having the ordered-olivine or the rhombohedral NASICON structure and the polyanion (PO.sub.4).sup.3 as at least one constituent for use as electrode material for alkali-ion rechargeable batteries.
A synthesized cathode material for a rechargeable electrochemical cell comprising one or more compounds, at least one of the compounds with an olivine structure comprising the general formula LiMPO.sub.4, wherein M comprises Mn and up to 10% of one or more other metals.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Fe.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein the cathode material has at least one discharge plateau at about 4.1 Volts versus lithium, corresponding to a Mn.sup.3+/Mn.sup.2+ couple.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein the compound with an olivine structure is contained in particles with a particle size on the nanometer scale.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein the compound with an olivine structure has a plurality of planes defined by zig-zag chains and linear chains, wherein lithium atoms occupy the linear chains of alternate planes of octahedral sites.
The cathode material according to claim 5, wherein M atoms occupy the zigzag chains of octahedral sites of alternate planes of octahedral sites.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Ti.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises a metal filled with two electron shells.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein the up to 10% one or more other metals comprises at least two additional metals.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Co. 11.
A rechargeable electrochemical cell comprising a cathode comprising one or more compounds, at least one of the compounds with an olivine structure comprising the general formula LiMPO.sub.4, wherein M comprises Mn and up to 10% of one or more other metals.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 11, wherein the compound with an olivine structure is contained in particles with a particle size on the nanometer scale.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 11, wherein the cathode material has at least one discharge plateau at about 4.1 Volts versus lithium, corresponding to a Mn.sup.3+/Mn.sup.2+ couple.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 11, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Fe.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 11, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Ti.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 11, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises Co. 17.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 11, wherein one of the one or more other metals comprises a metal filled with two electron shells.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 11, wherein the up to 10% one or more other metals comprises at least two additional metals.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 11, wherein the compound with an olivine structure has a plurality of planes defined by zig-zag chains and linear chains, wherein lithium atoms occupy the linear chains of alternate planes of octahedral sites.
The rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 19, wherein M atoms occupy the zigzag chains of octahedral sites of alternate planes of octahedral sites.
The cathode material according to claim 1, wherein M comprises Mn and up to 10% of one or more other transition metals.
The cathode material according to claim 13, wherein M comprises Mn and up to 10% of one or more other transition metals.
Manganese oxide composite electrodes for lithium batteries
An activated electrode for a non-aqueous electrochemical cell is disclosed with a precursor thereof a lithium metal oxide with the formula x{zLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.cndot.(1-z)LiM'O.sub.2}.
(1-x)LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.su- b.4 for 0<x<1; 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5; and 0<z<1, comprised of layered zLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.
(1-z)LiM'O.sub.2 and spinel LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 components, physically mixed or blended with one another or separated from one another in a compartmentalized electrode, in which M is one or more metal ions, and in which M' is selected from one or more first-row transition metal ions, The electrode is activated by removing lithium and lithia, from the precursor.
A cell and battery are also disclosed incorporating the disclosed positive electrode.
An activated electrode for a non-aqueous electrochemical cell, having as a precursor thereof, a lithium metal oxide with the formula: x{zLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.cndot.(1-z)LiM'O.sub.2}.cndot.
(1-x)LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub- .yO.sub.4 for 0<x<1, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5, and 0<z<1, comprising layered zLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.
(1-z)LiM'O.sub.2 and spinel LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.yO.sub.4 components, physically mixed with one another or separated from one another in a compartmentalized electrode, in which M is one or more metal ions, and in which M' is selected from one or more first-row transition metal ions, said activated electrode being activated by removing lithium, lithia, or a combination thereof, from said precursor.
The activated electrode of claim 1, wherein the activated electrode is activated by removing lithium from said precursor.
The activated electrode of claim 1, wherein M comprises one or more monovalent, divalent, trivalent or tetravalent ion.
The activated electrode of claim 3, wherein M is one or more of Li.sup.+, Mg.sup.2+, Ni.sup.2+, Ni.sup.3+, Co.sup.2+, Co.sup.3+, Al.sup.3+, Ti.sup.4+ and Zr.sup.4+ ions.
The activated electrode of claim 4, wherein M is one or more of Li.sup.+, Ni.sup.2+ and Ni.sup.3+ ions.
The activated electrode of claim 5, wherein M is Li.sup.+.
The activated electrode of claim 1, wherein M' is one or more of Mn, Co, and Ni ions.
The activated electrode of claim 1, wherein M' is replaced by 10% or less of Li, Mg and/or Al ions on a molar basis.
The activated electrode of claim 1, wherein the Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 and LiM'O.sub.2 subcomponents of the {zLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.cndot.(1-z)LiM'O.sub.2}.cndot.
(1-x)LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.- yO.sub.4 component are integrated at the atomic level in a complex structural arrangement.
The activated electrode of claim 1, wherein the M cations of the spinel component partially substitute for the manganese ions, or lithium and manganese ions of the layered Li.sub.2MnO.sub.3 subcomponent of the {zLi.sub.2MnO.sub.3.cndot.(1-z)LiM'O.sub.2}.cndot.
(1-x)LiMn.sub.2-yM.sub.- yO.sub.4 component.
The activated electrode of claim 1, wherein the components thereof are partially reduced to provide mixed Mn.sup.4+/3+ valence in the precursor.
The activated electrode of claim 1, wherein the electrode precursor is activated electrochemically.
The activated electrode of claim 1, wherein the electrode precursor is activated chemically with an acid.
An electrochemical cell comprising the activated electrode of claim 1, a negative electrode, and an electrolyte therebetween, said activated electrode being activated by removing lithium and lithia, from said precursor.
An electrochemical cell comprising the activated electrode of claim 2, a negative electrode, and an electrolyte therebetween, said activated electrode being activated by removing lithium from said precursor.
A battery comprising a plurality of electrochemical cells of claim 14 arranged in parallel, in series, or both.
A battery comprising a plurality of electrochemical cells of claim 15 arranged in parallel, in series, or both.
Rechargeable lithium battery
A rechargeable lithium battery including: a negative electrode comprising lithium-vanadium oxide having the following Formula 1 and being capable of intercalating and deintercalating lithium ions, and a carbon-based material; a positive electrode comprising a positive active material capable of intercalating and deintercalating lithium ions; and an electrolyte comprising a monomer including alkylene oxide and a reactive double bond, a lithium salt, and a non-aqueous organic solvent.
Li.sub.xM.sub.yV.sub.zO.sub.2.sub.+d Chemical Formula 1 In Formula 1, 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2.5, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5, 0.5.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1.5, 0.ltoreq.d.ltoreq.0.5, and M is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of Al, Cr, Mo, Ti, W, and Zr.
A rechargeable lithium battery comprising: a negative electrode comprising a carbon-based material and a lithium-vanadium oxide according to the following Formula 1, which is capable of intercalating and deintercalating lithium ions; a positive electrode comprising a positive active material capable of intercalating and deintercalating lithium ions; and an electrolyte comprising a monomer comprising an alkylene oxide and a reactive double bond, a lithium salt, and a non-aqueous organic solvent, wherein the monomer is present in an amount of about 0.01 to 5 wt %, based on the total weight of the electrolyte, Li.sub.xM.sub.yV.sub.zO.sub.2.sub.+d, Formula 1: wherein 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2.5, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5, 0.5.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1.5, 0.ltoreq.d.ltoreq.0.5, and M is at least one metal selected from the group consisting of Al, Cr, Mo, Ti, W, and Zr, and wherein the monomer is represented by the following Formula 2: ##STR00007## wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.3, and R.sub.5 are each independently hydrogen or an alkyl, R.sub.2 is an alkyl, R.sub.4 is an alkoxy, and n is an integer ranging from 1.ltoreq.n.ltoreq.10.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the carbon-based material comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of natural graphite, artificial graphite, graphitized carbon fiber, graphitized mesocarbon microbeads, fullerenes, amorphous carbon, and a combination thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the negative electrode comprises a core comprising the lithium-vanadium oxide and a coating disposed thereon comprising the carbon-based material.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the monomer comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of ethylene glycol methylether (metha)acrylate [EGME(M)A], ethylene glycol phenylether (metha)acrylate [EGPE(M)A], diethylene glycol methylether (metha)acrylate [DEGME(M)A], diethylene glycol 2-ethylhexylether (metha)acrylate [DEGEHE(M)A], polyethylene glycol methylether (metha)acrylate [PEGME(M)A], polyethylene glycol ethylether (metha)acrylate [PEGEE(M)A], polyethylene glycol 4-nonylphenylether (metha)acrylate [PEGNPE(M)A], polyethylene glycol phenylether (metha)acrylate [PEGPE(M)A], ethylene glycol dicyclopentenyl ether (metha)acrylate [EGDCPE(M)A], polypropylene glycol methylether (metha)acrylate [PPGME(M)A], polypropylene glycol 4-nonylphenylether (metha)acrylate, dipropylene glycol allylether (metha)acrylate, and a combination thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the lithium salt is at least one selected from the group consisting of LiBOB, LiFOB, LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiSbF.sub.6, LiAsF.sub.6, LiClO.sub.4, LiCF.sub.3SO.sub.3, LiC.sub.4F.sub.9SO.sub.3, LiN(CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.2, LiN(C.sub.2F.sub.5SO.sub.2).sub.2, LiAlO.sub.4, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiN(C.sub.pF.sub.2p+1SO.sub.2)(C.sub.qF.sub.2q+1SO.sub.2) where p and q are natural numbers, LiSO.sub.3CF.sub.3, LiCl, Lil, and a combination thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the lithium salt is present at a concentration of about 0.7 to 2M.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the non-aqueous organic solvent comprises an organic solvent selected from the group consisting of a carbonate-based solvent, an ester-based solvent, an ether-based solvent, a ketone-based solvent, and a combination thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the non-aqueous organic solvent comprises a cyclic carbonate and a linear carbonate in a volume ratio of about 1:1 to 1:9.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 8, wherein the cyclic carbonate comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate (EC), propylene carbonate (PC), butylenecarbonate (BC), .gamma.-butyrolactone (.gamma.-BL), and a combination thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 8, wherein the linear carbonate comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of dimethyl carbonate (DMC), diethyl carbonate (DEC), dipropyl carbonate (DPC), methylpropyl carbonate (MPC), ethylpropyl carbonate (EPC), methylethyl carbonate (MEC), and a combination thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 8, wherein the non-aqueous organic solvent further comprises an aromatic hydrocarbon solvent.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 11, wherein the non-aqueous organic solvent comprises a carbonate-based solvent and an aromatic hydrocarbon solvent in a volume ratio of about 1:1 to 10:1.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 11, wherein the aromatic hydrocarbon solvent is represented by the following Formula 3: ##STR00008## wherein R.sub.6 to R.sub.11 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, a halogen, an alkyl, a haloalkyl, and a combination thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte further comprises an additive of a compound comprising an ether group, an ethylene carbonate-based compound having the following Formula 4, or a mixture thereof, ##STR00009## wherein R.sub.12 and R.sub.13 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, a halogen, cyano (CN), nitro (NO.sub.2), and a fluorinated C1 to C5 alkyl; and at least one of R.sub.12 and R.sub.13 is a halogen, cyano (CN), nitro (NO.sub.2), and a fluorinated C1 to C5 alkyl.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 14, wherein the compound comprising an ether group is selected from the group consisting of dimethoxyethane (DME), bis(2-methoxyethylether) (DGM), triethylene glycol dimethylether (TriGM), tetraethylene glycol dimethylether (TetGM), polyethylene glycol dimethylether (PEGDME), propylene glycol dimethylether (PGDME), dioxolan, and a combination thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 14, wherein the compound comprising an ether group is present in an amount of about 0.05 to 5 wt % based on the total weight of the electrolyte.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the positive active material is selected from the group consisting of the compounds of the following Formulae 5 to 29: Li.sub.aA.sub.1-bB.sub.bD.sub.2, Chemical Formula 5 wherein 0.95.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1 and 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.5; Li.sub.aE.sub.1-bB.sub.bO.sub.2-cF.sub.c, Chemical Formula 6 wherein 0.95.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.5, and 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.05; LiCo.sub.2-bO.sub.4-cF.sub.c, Chemical Formula 7 wherein 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.5, and 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.05; LiMn.sub.2-bO.sub.4-cF.sub.c, Chemical Formula 8 wherein 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.5, and 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.05, Li.sub.aNi.sub.1-b-cCo.sub.bB.sub.cD.sub..alpha., Chemical Formula 9 wherein 0.95.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.05, and 0<.alpha..ltoreq.2; Li.sub.aNi.sub.1-b-cCo.sub.bO.sub.2-.alpha.F.sub..alpha., Chemical Formula 10 wherein 0.95.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.05, and 0<.alpha..ltoreq.2; Li.sub.aNi.sub.1-b-cCo.sub.bO.sub.2-.alpha.F.sub.2, Chemical Formula 11 wherein 0.95.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, 0b.ltoreq.0.5, and 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.05; Li.sub.aNi.sub.1-b-cMn.sub.bB.sub.cD.sub..alpha., Chemical Formula 12 wherein 0.95.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.05, and 0<.alpha..ltoreq.2; Li.sub.aNi.sub.1-b-cMn.sub.bO.sub.2-.alpha.F.sub..alpha., Chemical Formula 13 wherein 0.95.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.05, and 0<.alpha.<2; Li.sub.aNi.sub.1-b-cMn.sub.bO.sub.2-.alpha.F.sub.2, Chemical Formula 14 wherein 0.95.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.5, and 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.05; Li.sub.aNi.sub.bE.sub.cG.sub.dO.sub.2, Chemical Formula 15 wherein 0.90.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.9, 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.5, and 0.001.ltoreq.d.ltoreq.0.1; Li.sub.aNi.sub.bCo.sub.cMn.sub.dG.sub.eO.sub.2, Chemical Formula 16 wherein 0.90.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, 0.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.9, 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.d.ltoreq.0.5, and 0.001.ltoreq.e.ltoreq.0.1; Li.sub.aNiG.sub.bO.sub.2, Chemical Formula 17 wherein 0.90.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, and 0.001.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.1; Li.sub.aCoG.sub.bO.sub.2, Chemical Formula 18 wherein 0.90.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, and 0.001.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.1; Li.sub.aMnG.sub.bO.sub.2, Chemical Formula 19 wherein 0.90.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, and 0.001.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.1; Li.sub.aMn.sub.2G.sub.bO.sub.4, Chemical Formula 20 wherein 0.90.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1.1, and 0.001.ltoreq.b.ltoreq.0.1; HO.sub.2; Chemical Formula 21 HS.sub.2; Chemical Formula 22 LiHS.sub.2; Chemical Formula 23 V.sub.2O.sub.5; Chemical Formula 24 LiV.sub.2O.sub.5; Chemical Formula 25 LilO.sub.2; Chemical Formula 26 LiNiVO.sub.4; Chemical Formula 27 Li.sub.3-fJ.sub.2(PO.sub.4).sub.3(0.ltoreq.f.ltoreq.3); Chemical Formula 28 and Li.sub.3-fFe.sub.2(PO.sub.4).sub.3(0.ltoreq.f.ltoreq.2), Chemical Formula 29 wherein in the above Formulae 5 to 29: A is selected from the group consisting of Ni, Co, Mn, and a combination thereof; B is selected from the group consisting of Al, Ni, Co, Mn, Cr, Fe, Mg, Sr, V, a rare earth element, and a combination thereof; D is selected from the group consisting of O, F, S, P, and a combination thereof; E is selected from the group consisting of Co, Mn, and a combination thereof; F is selected from the group consisting of F, S, P, and a combination thereof; G is selected from the group consisting of Al, Cr, Mn, Fe, Mg, La, Ce, Sr, V, a lanthanide element, and a combination thereof, H is selected from the group consisting of Ti, Mo, Mn, and a combination thereof; I is selected from the group consisting of Cr, V, Fe, Sc, Y, and a combination thereof; J is selected from the group consisting of V, Cr, Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, and a combination thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the rechargeable lithium battery is a lithium ion battery or a lithium polymer battery.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, wherein the monomer is polymerized into a polymer film on the negative electrode, when current flows in the rechargeable lithium battery.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 1, further comprising a polymer film formed by the polymerization of the monomer, disposed on the negative electrode.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 20, wherein the polymer film comprises alkylene oxide groups.
Cathode compositions for lithium-ion electrochemical cells
Compositions useful for cathodes in lithium-ion batteries are described.
In some examples, an electrochemical cell includes an electrode, the electrode comprising a composition including the elements of Li, Fe, and F, where the composition includes a first phase including a disordered trirutile structure.
Cathodes including such a composition may exhibit reversible reactivity with lithium.
In some examples, this reaction takes place via an intercalation mechanism.
An electrochemical cell comprising an electrode, the electrode comprising a composition comprising the elements of Li, Fe, and F, wherein the composition includes a first phase having a disordered trirutile structure.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein the composition has the formula Li.sub.xFe.sub.yF.sub.z, wherein x is greater than approximately 0.4 and less than approximately 2.5, and z is greater than approximately 5.5 and less than approximately 6.5, with y equal to approximately 2.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2, wherein the ratio of z to y is greater than approximately 3 to 1.
The electrochemical cell of claim 2, wherein y equals approximately 2 and z equals approximately 6.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4, wherein x is greater than approximately 0.5 and less than approximately 2.0.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein the composition has the formula Li.sub.1+nFe.sub.2F.sub.6+n, wherein n is greater than 0.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6, wherein 0.0<n.ltoreq.approximately 0.8.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6, wherein n equals approximately 0.2.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein the composition further includes a Li.sub.3FeF.sub.6 phase.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein the composition is formed via high energy ball milling of at least the elements of Li, Fe, and F. 11.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein the electrochemical cell exhibits a specific capacity of greater than approximately 100 mAh/g.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein the composition exhibits reversible reactivity with lithium via an intercalation reaction.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1, wherein the composition further comprises at least one of Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Co, Ni, or Cu.
A battery pack comprising at least one electrochemical cell accordingly to claim 1.
An electronic device comprising a battery pack according to claim 14.
A method comprising forming a composition comprising the elements of Li, Fe, and F, the composition having a first phase including a disordered trirutile structure.
The method of claim 16, wherein the composition has the formula Li.sub.xFe.sub.yF.sub.z, wherein x is greater than approximately 0.4 and less than approximately 2.5, and z is greater than approximately 5.5 and less than approximately 6.5, with y equal to approximately 2.
The method of claim 16, wherein x equals approximately 1, y equals approximately 2, and z equals approximately 6.
The method of claim 16, wherein the composition has excess lithium.
The method of claim 16, further comprising forming an electrode of an electrochemical cell, wherein the electrode includes the composition.
The method of claim 16, wherein the composition is formed via at least one of high-energy balling milling, mechanical attriting, roller milling or pebble milling.
Porous anode active material, method of manufacturing the same, anode  comprising the same, and lithium battery comprising the anode
A porous anode active material including a Group 14 element oxide and a non-active material having no reactivity with lithium; a method of manufacturing the porous anode active material; an anode including the porous anode active material; and a lithium battery including the anode.
The non-active material may be silica.
A porous anode active material comprising: 85-99 parts by weight of a mesoporous Group 14 element oxide; and 1-15 parts by weight of silica that is formed in particles attached to the surface of the mesoporous Group 14 element oxide and exists in a non-active phase having no reactivity with lithium.
The porous anode active material of claim 1, wherein the mesoporous Group 14 element oxide is selected from the group consisting of tin oxide (SnO.sub.2), silicon oxide (SiO.sub.x where 0<x<2), germanium oxide (GeO.sub.2) and lead oxide (PbO).
The porous anode active material of claim 1, wherein the mesoporous Group 14 element oxide has mesopores having a diameter of 2 to 50 nm.
A method of manufacturing a porous anode active material, the method comprising: immersing ordered mesoporous silica (OMS) in a Group 14 element salt-containing aqueous solution that comprises a Group 14 element salt and a solvent; heat treating the resultant product to form an OMS-Group 14 element oxide complex; and etching the OMS-Group 14 element oxide complex with an acid solution or a base solution to obtain a porous anode active material comprising: 85-99 parts by weight of a mesoporous Group 14 element oxide; and 1-15 parts by weight of silica that exists in a non-active phase having no reactivity with lithium.
The method of claim 4, wherein the Group 14 element salt comprises at least one compound selected from the group consisting of SnCl.sub.4, SnCl.sub.2, SnSO.sub.4, Na.sub.2SnO.sub.3, PbSO.sub.4, PbCl.sub.2, GeCl.sub.4, GeOCl.sub.2, Na.sub.2SiO.sub.3, Li.sub.2SiO.sub.3, and Li.sub.4SiO.sub.4.
The method of claim 4, wherein the base solution is selected from an NaOH solution and a KOH solution.
The method of claim 4, wherein the acid solution is an HF solution.
The method of claim 4, wherein the heat treating is performed in an oxygen atmosphere at a temperature of 300 to 800.degree.
C. 9.
An anode comprising the porous anode active material of claim 1.
An anode comprising the porous anode active material of claim 2.
An anode comprising the porous anode active material of claim 3.
A lithium battery comprising an anode that comprises the porous anode active material of claim 1.
The porous anode active material of claim 2, wherein the X in SiO.sub.x is 1.
The porous anode active material of claim 3, wherein the mesoporous Group 14 element oxide mesopores have a diameter of 5 to 10 nm.
The porous anode active material of claim 3, wherein: the mesoporous Group 14 element oxide is tin oxide, and the average diameter of the silica particles is 20 to 200 nm.
The method of claim 4, wherein the heat treating is performed for 2 to 3 hours.
A method of manufacturing an anode comprising a porous anode active material, the method comprising: mixing the porous anode active material with a conductive material, a binder and a solvent to form an anode active material forming composition; coating the anode active material forming composition on a collector; and drying the combination of the anode active material forming composition and the collector, wherein: the porous anode active material comprises 85-99 parts by weight of a mesoporous Group 14 element oxide, the porous anode active material comprises 1-15 parts by weight of silica that exists in a non-active phase having no reactivity with lithium, the mesoporous Group 14 element oxide is selected from the group consisting of tin oxide (SnO.sub.2), silicon oxide (SiO.sub.x where 0<x<2), germanium oxide (GeO.sub.2) and lead oxide (PbO), and the mesoporous Group 14 element oxide has mesopores having a diameter of 2 to 50 nm.
Cathode compositions for lithium-ion electrochemical cells
Provided are compositions useful as cathodes for lithium-ion batteries.
The compositions include lithium mixed metal oxides of the formula, Li[Li.sub.xNi.sub.yMn.sub.z]O.sub.2, wherein x+y+z=1, 0<x<0.20, 0.28.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.75, and 0.25.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.49, said composition characterized as being in the form of a single phase.
Also provided are electrodes that include the provided compositions as well as battery packs and electronic devices that include the provided electrodes.
An electrochemical cell comprising at least one electrode, wherein the electrode comprises a composition comprising a lithium mixed metal oxide composition having the formula, Li[Li.sub.xNi.sub.yMn.sub.z]O.sub.2, wherein x+y+z=1, 0<x<0.20, 0.28.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.75, and 0.25.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.49, said composition in the form of a single phase, wherein the single phase has an O3 layered structure, wherein the composition does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when the electrode is incorporated into a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and has a final capacity of greater than about 210 mAh/g at 4.6 V, and wherein the electrochemical cell comprises an electrolyte that includes diethyl carbonate.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 1, wherein 0.05.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.17.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 1, wherein the Mn is in a +4 oxidation state.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 1, wherein the composition has an onset temperature greater than about 170.degree.
C. when the composition is made into a pellet and subjected to accelerated rate calorimetry (ARC) testing.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 1, wherein the electrode has a final capacity that is greater than about 190 mAh/g.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 5, wherein the electrode has a final capacity that is greater than about 170 mAh/g.
A battery pack comprising at least one electrochemical cell according to claim 1.
An electronic device comprising a battery pack according to claim 7.
An electrochemical cell comprising at least one electrode, wherein the electrode comprises a composition comprising a lithium mixed metal oxide composition having the formula, Li[Li.sub.xNi.sub.yMn.sub.z]O.sub.2, wherein x+y+z=1, 0<x<0.20, 0.28.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.75, and 0.25.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.49, said composition in the form of a single phase, wherein the single phase has an O3 layered structure, wherein the composition does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when the electrode is incorporated into a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and has a final capacity of greater than about 210 mAh/g at 4.6 V, and wherein the electrochemical cell comprises an electrolyte that includes dimethyl carbonate or ethyl-methyl carbonate.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 9, wherein 0.05.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.17.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 9, wherein the Mn is in a +4 oxidation state.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 9, wherein the composition has an onset temperature greater than about 170.degree.
C. when the composition is made into a pellet and subjected to accelerated rate calorimetry (ARC) testing.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 9, wherein the electrode has a final capacity that is greater than about 190 mAh/g.
An electrochemical cell according to claim 13, wherein the electrode has a final capacity that is greater than about 170 mAh/g.
A battery pack comprising at least one electrochemical cell according to claim 9.
An electronic device comprising a battery pack according to claim 15.
High performance batteries with carbon nanomaterials and ionic liquids
The present invention is directed to lithium-ion batteries in general and more particularly to lithium-ion batteries based on aligned graphene ribbon anodes, V.sub.2O.sub.5 graphene ribbon composite cathodes, and ionic liquid electrolytes.
The lithium-ion batteries have excellent performance metrics of cell voltages, energy densities, and power densities.
An electrochemical battery, comprising: (a) an ionic liquid electrolyte; (b) first and second sets of aligned carbon nanotubes, wherein members of the second set of carbon nanotubes comprise a vanadium oxide coating having a thickness form about 1 to about 100 nm, wherein the cathode has a capacity of at least about 400 hAh per gram of vanadium oxide; (c) an anode comprising the first set of carbon nanotubes; (d) a cathode comprising the second set of carbon nanotubes, and (e) a microporous membrane separator, wherein the ionic liquid and microporous membrane separator are positioned between the anode and cathode, wherein, for the cathode, the carbon nanotubes having a length is from about 300 to about 700 .mu.m 2.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the first and second set of carbon nanotubes are plasma etched to open free ends of at least most of the carbon nanotubes, and wherein longitudinal axes of at least most of the carbon nanotubes are substantially parallel to one another along substantially the entire length of the carbon nanotubes.
The battery of claim 2, wherein the first and second sets of carbon nanotubes have surface areas of at least about 200 m.sup.2/g.
The battery of claim 2, wherein the first and second sets of carbon nanotubes have surface areas ranging from about 250 to about 10,000 cm.sup.2 per cm.sup.2 of one of the anode and cathode.
The battery of claim 2, wherein at least one of the anode and cathode has a carbon nanotube loading from about 0.1 to about 4.5 mg/cm.sup.2.
The battery of claim 1, wherein at least most of the first set of aligned carbon nanotubes have lengths ranging from about 20 to about 1,000 microns, diameters ranging from about 3 to about 50 nm, and inter-carbon nanotube spacings from about 10 to about 250 nm.
The battery of claim 1, wherein a solid electrolyte interphase is located on the carbon nanotubes in the anode and wherein the vanadium oxide coating is at least one of a continuous and discontinuous film.
The battery of claim 1, wherein each of the first and second sets of carbon nanotubes have opposing first and second ends; wherein the first ends of the first and second sets of carbon nanotubes are, respectively, positioned on the anode and cathode, and wherein the first and second sets of carbon nanotubes are substantially perpendicular to at least one of a conductive and semiconductive substantially planar electrode component of the anode and cathode, respectively.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the carbon nanotubes are hollow, wherein the carbon nanotubes have a diameter of about 3 nm to about 50 nm, wherein the first set of carbon nanotubes have average, mean, and or modal lengths from about 200 to about 1,000 .mu.m, and wherein the carbon nanotubes have an electron mobility of at least about 15,000 cm.sup.2V.sup.-1s.sup.-1.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the anode has a lithium-ion intercalation and/or de-intercalation value of at least 200 mAh/g.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the cathode has a capacity of about 500 mAh per gram of vanadium oxide.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte comprises an ionic liquid comprising: (A) a lithium-containing salt; (B) a solid electrolyte interphase film-forming additive; (C) at least one cation selected from the group consisting essentially of the following compounds and mixtures thereof: ##STR00002## wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, and R.sub.6 of the cationic components are identical or different and are selected from the group consisting essentially of: (i) a hydrogen; (ii) a halogen; (iii) a hydroxyl; (iv) an amine; (v) a thiol; (vi) a C.sub.1 to C.sub.25 straight-chain, or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical; (vii) a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical; (viii) a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical; (ix) a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; (x) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having interruption by one or more heteroatoms, such as, oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur; (xi) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having interruption by one or more functionalities selected from the group consisting essentially of: (a') a carbonyl; (b') an ester; (c') an amide, where R' is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, C.sub.1-C.sub.12 straight-chain, branched or cyclic alkane or alkene; (d') a sulfonate; (e') a sulfonamide, where R' is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, C.sub.1-C.sub.12 straight-chain, branched or cyclic alkane or alkene; (xii) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical terminally functionalized by Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (xiii) a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical having at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting essentially of O, N, S, and optionally substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (xiv) a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical having at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting essentially of O, N, S, and optionally substituted with at least one of the following: (a'') a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon radical substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (b'') a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH (c'') a hydroxyl; (d'') an amine; (e'') a thiol; (xv) a polyether of the type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--R.sub.8 or block or random type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--(--R.sub.7'--O--).sub.m--R.sub.8, wherein at least one of the following is true: (a''') R.sub.7 is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; (b''') R.sub.7' is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; and (c''') wherein n is from 1 to 40; and (d''') R.sub.8 is hydrogen, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; and (xvi) a polyether of the type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--C(O)--R.sub.8 or block or random type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--(--R.sub.7'--O--).sub.m--C(O)--R.sub.8, wherein at least one of the following is true: (a'''') R.sub.7 is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; (b'''') R.sub.7' is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; and (c'''') wherein n is from 1 to 40; and (d'''') R.sub.8 is hydrogen, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; and (D) at least one anion selected from the group consisting essentially of F.sup.-; Cl.sup.-, Br.sup.-; I.sup.-; NO.sub.3.sup.-; N(CN).sub.2.sup.-; BF.sub.4.sup.-; ClO.sub.4.sup.-; PF.sub.6.sup.-; RSO.sub.3.sup.-; RCOO.sup.-, where R is an alkyl group, substituted alkyl group, or phenyl group; (CF.sub.3).sub.2PF.sub.4.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.3PF.sub.3.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.4PF.sub.2.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.5PF.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.6P.sup.-; (CF.sub.2SO.sub.3.sup.-).sub.2; (CF.sub.2CF.sub.2SO.sub.3.sup.-).sub.2; (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2.sup.-).sub.2N.sup.-; CF.sub.3CF.sub.2(CF.sub.3).sub.2CO.sup.-; (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2.sup.-).sub.2CH.sup.-; (SF.sub.5).sub.3C.sup.-; (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.3C.sup.-; [O(CF.sub.3).sub.2C.sub.2(CF.sub.3).sub.2O].sub.2PO.sup.-; (CF.sub.3(CF.sub.2).sub.7SO.sub.3.sup.-; and mixtures thereof.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte comprises an ionic liquid having a melting point of no more than about 100 degrees Celsius, a decomposition temperature of at least about 200 degrees Celsius, a viscosity of no more than about 200 Cp, an ionic conductivity of at least about 0.01 mS/cm, and an electrochemical window of at least about 4 Volts.
The battery of claim 1, further comprising a polymer host is selected from the group consisting essentially of homopolymers and copolymers of polyolefins, polystyrenes, polyvinyls, polyacrylics, polyhalo-olefins, polydienes, polyoxides/esthers/acetals, polysulfides, polyesters/thioesters, polyamides/thioamides, polyurethanes/thiourethanes, polyureas/thioureas, polyimides/thioimides, polyanhydrides/thianhydrides, polycarbonates/thiocarbonates, polyimines, polysiloxanes/silanes, polyphosphazenes, polyketones/thioketones, polysulfones/sulfoxides/sulfonates/sulfoamides, polyphylenes, and mixtures thereof.
The battery of claim 14, wherein a molar ratio of ionic liquid to polymer host ranges from about 0.1:1 to about 10:1.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the microporous membrane separator has a thickness from about 2 .mu.m to about 200 .mu.m and wherein the membrane separator is fully wettable by at least one of a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic ionic liquid.
An electrochemical battery, comprising: (a) an ionic liquid electrolyte; (b) an anode having carbon nanotubes; (c) a cathode having vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes, the vanadium oxide coating has a thickness from about 1 to about 100 nm and the cathode has a capacity of at least about 400 mAh per gram of vanadium oxide, wherein at least one of the anode and cathode comprise aligned carbon nanotubes; and (d) a microporous membrane separator, wherein the ionic liquid and microporous membrane separator are positioned between the anode and cathode.
The battery of claim 17, wherein each of the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have opposing first and second ends; wherein the first ends of the carbon nanotubes and vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes are, respectively, positioned on the anode and cathode, and wherein the carbon nanotubes and vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes are substantially perpendicular to at least one of a conductive and semiconductive substantially planar electrode component of the anode and cathode, respectively, wherein at least most of the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have open free ends, wherein longitudinal axes of at least most of the carbon nanotubes and vanadium-oxide coated carbon nanotubes are substantially parallel to one another along the entire length of the nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes, wherein a solid electrolyte interphase is positioned on the carbon nanotubes, wherein the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have surface areas of at least about 200 m.sup.2/g, wherein the vanadium oxide coating is at least one of a continuous and discontinuous film, wherein at least most of the carbon nanotubes: i) are hollow; ii) have a length from about 20 to about 1,000 microns; iii) have diameters from about 3 to about 50 nm; iv) have an electron mobility of at least about 15,000 cm.sup.2V.sup.-1s.sup.-1; and v) have inter-carbon nanotube spacings from about 10 to about 250 nm.
The battery of claim 17, wherein the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have surface areas of at least about 200 m.sup.2/g, wherein the cathode has a loading of the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes from about 0.1 to about 4.5 mg/cm.sup.2, wherein the carbon nanotubes have an average, mean, or modal length from about 200 to about 1,000 .mu.m.
The battery of claim 17, wherein the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have surface areas ranging from about 250 to about 10,000 cm.sup.2 per cm.sup.2 of one of the anode and cathode.
The battery of claim 17, wherein the cathode has a capacity of about 500 mAh per gram of vanadium oxide.
The battery of claim 17, wherein the electrolyte comprises an ionic liquid comprising: (A) a lithium-containing salt; (B) a solid electrolyte interphase film-forming additive; (C) at least one cation selected from the group consisting essentially of the following compounds and mixtures thereof: ##STR00003## wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, and R.sub.6 of the cationic components are identical or different and are selected from the group consisting essentially of: (i) a hydrogen; (ii) a halogen; (iii) a hydroxyl; (iv) an amine; (v) a thiol; (vi) a C.sub.1 to C.sub.25 straight-chain or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical; (vii) a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical; (viii) a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical; (ix) a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; (x) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having interruption by one or more heteroatoms, such as, oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur; (xi) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having interruption by one or more functionalities selected from the group consisting essentially of: (a') a carbonyl; (b') an ester; (c') an amide, where R' is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, C.sub.1-C.sub.12 straight-chain, branched or cyclic alkane or alkene; (d') a sulfonate; (e') a sulfonamide, where R' is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, C.sub.1-C.sub.12 straight-chain, branched or cyclic alkane or alkene; (xii) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical terminally functionalized by Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (xiii) a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical having at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting essentially of O, N, S, and optionally substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (xiv) a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical having at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting essentially of O, N, S, and optionally substituted with at least one of the following: (a'') a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 straight-chain, branched hydrocarbon radical substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (b'') a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH (c'') a hydroxyl; (d'') an amine; (e'') a thiol; (xv) a polyether of the type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--R.sub.8 or block or random type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--(--R.sub.7'--O--).sub.m--R.sub.8, wherein at least one of the following is true: (a''') R.sub.7 is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; (b''') R.sub.7' is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; and (c''') wherein n is from 1 to 40; and (d''') R.sub.8 is hydrogen, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30-cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; and (xvi) a polyether of the type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--C(O)--R.sub.8 or block or random type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n(--R.sub.7'--O--).sub.m--C(O)--R.sub.8, wherein at least one of the following is true: (a'''') R.sub.7 is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; (b'''') R.sub.7' is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; and (c'''') wherein n is from 1 to 40; and (d'''') R.sub.8 is hydrogen, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; and (D) at least one anion selected from the group consisting essentially of F.sup.-; Cl.sup.-, Br.sup.-; I.sup.-; NO.sub.3.sup.-; N(CN).sub.2.sup.-; BF.sub.4.sup.-; ClO.sub.4.sup.-; PF.sub.6.sup.-; RSO.sub.3.sup.-; RCOO.sup.-, where R is an alkyl group, substituted alkyl group, or phenyl group; (CF.sub.3).sub.2PF.sub.4.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.3PF.sub.3.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.4PF.sub.2.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.5PF.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.6P.sup.-; (CF.sub.2SO.sub.3.sup.-).sub.2; (CF.sub.2CF.sub.2SO.sub.3.sup.-).sub.2; (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2.sup.-).sub.2N.sup.-; CF.sub.3CF.sub.2(CF.sub.3).sub.2CO.sup.-; (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2.sup.-).sub.2CH.sup.-; (SF.sub.5).sub.3C.sup.-; (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.3C.sup.-; [O(CF.sub.3).sub.2C.sub.2(CF.sub.3).sub.2O].sub.2PO.sup.-; (CF.sub.3(CF.sub.2).sub.7SO.sub.3.sup.-; and mixtures thereof, wherein the ionic liquid has a melting point of no more than about 100 degrees Celsius, a decomposition temperature of at least about 200 degrees Celsius, a viscosity of no more than about 200 Cp, an ionic conductivity of at least about 0.01 mS/cm, and an electrochemical window of at least about 4 Volts.
The battery of claim 17, further comprising a polymer host selected from the group consisting essentially of homopolymers and copolymers of polyolefins, polystyrenes, polyvinyls, polyacrylics, polyhalo-olefins, polydienes, polyoxides/esthers/acetals, polysulfides, polyesters/thioesters, polyamides/thioamides, polyurethanes/thiourethanes, polyureas/thioureas, polyimides/thioimides, polyanhydrides/thianhydrides, polycarbonates/thiocarbonates, polyimines, polysiloxanes/silanes, polyphosphazenes, polyketones/thioketones, polysulfones/sulfoxides/sulfonates/sulfoamides, polyphylenes, and mixtures thereof, wherein a molar ratio of ionic liquid to polymer host ranges from about 0.1:1 to about 10:1, wherein the microporous membrane separator has a thickness from about 2 .mu.m to about 200 .mu.M and wherein the membrane separator is fully wettable by at least one of a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic ionic liquid.
An electrochemical battery, comprising: (a) an ionic liquid electrolyte; (b) an anode having carbon nanotubes; (c) a cathode having vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes, the vanadium oxide coating has a thickness from about 1 to about 100 nm, wherein at least one of the anode and cathode comprise aligned carbon nanotubes; and (d) a microporous membrane separator, wherein the ionic liquid and microporous membrane separator are positioned between the anode and cathode.
The battery of claim 24, wherein the cathode has a capacity of at least about 400 mAh per gram of vanadium oxide, wherein each of the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have opposing first and second ends; wherein the first ends of the carbon nanotubes and vanadium-coated carbon nanotubes are, respectively, positioned on the anode and cathode, and wherein the carbon nanotubes and vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes are substantially perpendicular to at least one of a conductive and semiconductive substantially planar electrode component of the anode and cathode, respectively, wherein at least most of the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have open free ends, wherein longitudinal axes of at least most of the carbon nanotubes and vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes are substantially parallel to one another along the entire longitudinal axes of the nanotubes and vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes, wherein a solid electrolyte interphase is positioned on the carbon nanotubes, wherein the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have surface areas of at least about 200 m.sup.2/g, wherein the vanadium oxide coating is at least one of a continuous and discontinuous film, wherein at least most of the carbon nanotubes: i) are hollow; ii) have a length from about 20 to about 1,000 microns; iii) have diameters from about 3 to about 50 nm; iv) have an electron mobility of at least about 15,000 cm.sup.2V.sup.-1s.sup.-1; and v) have inter-carbon nanotube spacings from about 10 to about 250 nm.
The battery of claim 24, wherein the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have surface areas of at least about 200 m.sup.2/g, wherein the cathode has a loading of the carbon nanotubes and vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes from about 0.1 to about 4.5 mg/cm.sup.2, wherein the carbon nanotubes have an average, mean, or modal length from about 200 to about 1,000 .mu.m.
The battery of claim 24, wherein the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have surface areas ranging from about 250 to about 10,000 cm.sup.2 per cm.sup.2 of one of the anode and cathode.
The battery of claim 24, wherein the cathode has a capacity of about 500 mAh per gram of vanadium oxide.
The battery of claim 24, wherein the electrolyte comprises an ionic liquid comprising: (A) a lithium-containing salt; (B) a solid electrolyte interphase film-forming additive; (C) at least one cation selected from the group consisting essentially of the following compounds and mixtures thereof: ##STR00004## wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, and R.sub.6 of the cationic components are identical or different and are selected from the group consisting essentially of: (i) a hydrogen; (ii) a halogen; (iii) a hydroxyl; (iv) an amine; (v) a thiol; (vi) a C.sub.1 to C.sub.25 straight-chain, branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical; (vii) a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical; (viii) a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical; (ix) a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; (x) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having interruption by one or more heteroatoms, such as, oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur; (xi) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having interruption by one or more functionalities selected from the group consisting essentially of: (a') a carbonyl; (b') an ester; (c') an amide, where R' is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, C.sub.1-C.sub.12 straight-chain, branched or cyclic alkane or alkene; (d') a sulfonate; (e') a sulfonamide, where R' is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, C.sub.1-C.sub.12 straight-chain, branched or cyclic alkane or alkene; (xii) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical terminally functionalized by Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (xiii) a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical having at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting essentially of O, N, S, and optionally substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (xiv) a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical having at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting essentially of O, N, S, and optionally substituted with at least one of the following: (a'') a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 straight-chain, branched hydrocarbon radical substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (b'') a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH (c'') a hydroxyl; (d'') an amine; (e'') a thiol; (xv) a polyether of the type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--R.sub.8 or block or random type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--(--R.sub.7'--O--).sub.m--R.sub.8, wherein at least of the following is true: (a''') R.sub.7 is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; (b''') R.sub.7' is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; and (c''') wherein n is from 1 to 40; and (d''') R.sub.8 is hydrogen, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30-cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; and (xvi) a polyether of the type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--C(O)--R.sub.8 or block or random type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n(--R.sub.7'--O--).sub.m--C(O)--R.sub.8, wherein at least of the following is true: (a'''') R.sub.7 is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; (b'''') R.sub.7' is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; and (c'''') wherein n is from 1 to 40; and (d'''') R.sub.8 is hydrogen, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30-cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; and (D) at least one anion selected from the group consisting essentially of F.sup.-; Cl.sup.-, Br.sup.-; I.sup.-; NO.sub.3.sup.-; N(CN).sub.2.sup.-; BF.sub.4.sup.-; ClO.sub.4.sup.-; PF.sub.6.sup.-; RSO.sub.3.sup.-; RCOO.sup.-, where R is an alkyl group, substituted alkyl group, or phenyl group; (CF.sub.3).sub.2PF.sub.4.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.3PF.sub.3.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.4PF.sub.2.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.5PF.sup.-; (CF.sub.3).sub.6P.sup.-; (CF.sub.2SO.sub.3.sup.-).sub.2; (CF.sub.2CF.sub.2SO.sub.3.sup.-).sub.2; (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2.sup.-).sub.2N.sup.-; CF.sub.3CF.sub.2(CF.sub.3).sub.2CO.sup.-; (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2.sup.-).sub.2CH.sup.-; (SF.sub.5).sub.3C.sup.-; (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.3C.sup.-; [O(CF.sub.3).sub.2C.sub.2(CF.sub.3).sub.2O].sub.2PO.sup.-; (CF.sub.3(CF.sub.2).sub.7SO.sub.3.sup.-; and mixtures thereof, wherein the ionic liquid has a melting point of no more than about 100 degrees Celsius, a decomposition temperature of at least about 200 degrees Celsius, a viscosity of no more than about 200 Cp, an ionic conductivity of at least about 0.01 mS/cm, and an electrochemical window of at least about 4 Volts.
The battery of claim 24, further comprising a polymer host selected from the group consisting essentially of homopolymers and copolymers of polyolefins, polystyrenes, polyvinyls, polyacrylics, polyhalo-olefins, polydienes, polyoxides/esthers/acetals, polysulfides, polyesters/thioesters, polyamides/thioamides, polyurethanes/thiourethanes, polyureas/thioureas, polyimides/thioimides, polyanhydrides/thianhydrides, polycarbonates/thiocarbonates, polyimines, polysiloxanes/silanes, polyphosphazenes, polyketones/thioketones, polysulfones/sulfoxides/sulfonates/sulfoamides, polyphylenes, and mixtures thereof, wherein a molar ratio of ionic liquid to polymer host ranges from about 0.1:1 to about 10:1, wherein the microporous membrane separator has a thickness from about 2 .mu.m to about 200 .mu.m and wherein the membrane separator is fully wettable by at least one of a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic ionic liquid.
An electrochemical battery, comprising: (a) an ionic liquid electrolyte; (b) an anode having carbon nanotubes; (c) a cathode having vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes, wherein the cathode has a capacity of at least about 400 mAh per gram of vanadium oxide, wherein at least one of the anode and cathode comprise aligned carbon nanotubes; and (d) a microporous membrane separator, wherein the ionic liquid and microporous membrane separator are positioned between the anode and cathode.
The battery of claim 31, wherein the vanadium oxide coating has a thickness from about 1 to about 100 nm, wherein each of the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have opposing first and second ends; wherein the first ends of the carbon nanotubes and vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes are, respectively, positioned on the anode and cathode, and wherein the carbon nanotubes and vanadium oxide coated-carbon nanotubes are substantially perpendicular to at least one of a conductive and semiconductive substantially planar electrode component of the anode and cathode, respectively, wherein at least most of the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have open free ends, wherein longitudinal axes of at least most of the carbon nanotubes and vanadium-oxide coated carbon nanotubes are substantially parallel to one another along the entire length of the nanotubes, wherein a solid electrolyte interphase is positioned on the carbon nanotubes, wherein the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have surface areas of at least about 200 m.sup.2/g, wherein the vanadium oxide coating is at least one of a continuous and discontinuous film, wherein at least most of the carbon nanotubes: i) are hollow; ii) have a length from about 20 to about 1,000 microns; iii) have diameters from about 3 to about 50 nm; iv) have an electron mobility of at least about 15,000 cm.sup.2V.sup.-1s.sup.-1; and v) have inter-carbon nanotube spacings from about 10 to about 250 nm.
The battery of claim 31, wherein the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have surface areas of at least about 200 m.sup.2/g, wherein the cathode has a loading of carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes from about 0.1 to about 4.5 mg/cm.sup.2, wherein the carbon nanotubes have an average, mean, or modal length from about 200 to about 1,000 .mu.m.
The battery of claim 31, wherein the carbon nanotubes and the vanadium oxide-coated carbon nanotubes have surface areas ranging from about 250 to about 10,000 cm.sup.2 per cm.sup.2 of one of the anode and cathode.
The battery of claim 31, wherein the cathode has a capacity of about 500 mAh per gram of vanadium oxide.
The battery of claim 31, wherein the electrolyte comprises an ionic liquid comprising: (A) a lithium-containing salt; (B) a solid electrolyte interphase film-forming additive; (C) at least one cation selected from the group consisting essentially of the following compounds and mixtures thereof: ##STR00005## wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5, and R.sub.6 of the cationic components are identical or different and are selected from the group consisting essentially of: (i) a hydrogen; (ii) a halogen; (iii) a hydroxyl; (iv) an amine; (v) a thiol; (vi) a C.sub.1 to C.sub.25 straight-chain or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical; (vii) a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical; (viii) a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical; (ix) a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; (x) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having interruption by one or more heteroatoms, such as, oxygen, nitrogen or sulfur; (xi) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having interruption by one or more functionalities selected from the group consisting essentially of: (a') a carbonyl; (b') an ester; (c') an amide, where R' is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, C.sub.1-C.sub.12 straight-chain, branched or cyclic alkane or alkene; (d') a sulfonate; (e') a sulfonamide, where R' is selected from the group consisting essentially of hydrogen, C.sub.1-C.sub.12 straight-chain, branched or cyclic alkane or alkene; (xii) a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 linear or branched aliphatic hydrocarbon radical terminally functionalized by Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (xiii) a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical having at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting essentially of O, N, S, and optionally substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (xiv) a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical having at least one heteroatom selected from the group consisting essentially of O, N, S, and optionally substituted with at least one of the following: (a'') a C.sub.2 to C.sub.25 straight-chain, branched hydrocarbon radical substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH; (b'') a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical substituted with at least one of the following Cl, Br, F, I, NH, OH, NH.sub.2, NHCH.sub.3 or SH (c'') a hydroxyl; (d'') an amine; (e'') a thiol; (xv) a polyether of the type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--R.sub.8 or block or random type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--(--R.sub.7'--O--).sub.m--R.sub.8, wherein at least one of the following is true: (a''') R.sub.7 is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; (b''') R.sub.7' is a linear or branched hydrocarbon radical having from 2 to 4 carbon atoms; and (c''') wherein n is from 1 to 40; and (d''') R.sub.8 is hydrogen, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30 straight-chain or branched hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.5 to C.sub.30-cycloaliphatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.6 to C.sub.30 aromatic hydrocarbon radical, or a C.sub.7 to C.sub.40 alkylaryl radical; and (xvi) a polyether of the type --O--(--R.sub.7--O--).sub.n--C
Cathode compositions for lithium-ion batteries
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery having the formula Li[M.sup.1.sub.
(1-x)Mn.sub.x]O.sub.2 where 0<x<1 and M.sup.1 represents one or more metal elements, with the proviso that M.sup.1 is a metal element other than chromium.
The composition is in the form of a single phase having an O3 crystal structure that does not undergo a phase transformation to a spinel crystal structure when incorporated in a lithium-ion battery and cycled for 100 full charge-discharge cycles at 30.degree.
C. and a final capacity of 130 mAh/g using a discharge current of 30 mA/g.
A cathode composition for a lithium-ion battery selected from cathode compositions in which the cathode composition has the formula Li[M.sup.4.sub.yM.sup.5.sub.1-2yMn.sub.y]O.sub.2, wherein 0.083<y<0.5 with the proviso that M.sup.4 and M.sup.5 do not include chromium, and wherein M.sup.4 is Co and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Li and Ni.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.5 further comprises Co, Fe, Cu, Zn, V, or combinations thereof.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein 0.167<y<0.5.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein the composition has a c-axis lattice constant of about 14.17 to about 14.28.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.4 is Co and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Li and Ni, and wherein the composition has a c-axis lattice constant of about 14.20 to about 14.27.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.4 is Co and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Li and Ni, and wherein the composition has a c-axis lattice constant of about 14.24 to about 14.26.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein the composition has a reversible capacity of at least about 200 mAh/g.
A cathode composition according to claim 1 wherein the composition has an onset temperature above 185.degree.
C. as analyzed by differential scanning calorimetry.
Electrolyte, electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary battery  comprising the electrolyte, and lithium-ion secondary battery using the  electrolyte solution
An object of the present invention is to provide an electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries comprising a tetraalkylphosphonium salt which improves the cycle characteristics and safety of lithium-ion batteries, and to provide a lithium-ion secondary battery using the electrolyte solution.
Disclosed is an electrolyte comprising a tetraalkylphosphonium salt represented by general formula (1) ##STR00001## wherein R.sub.1 represents a linear, branched or alicyclic alkyl group having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and R.sub.2 represents a linear, branched or alicyclic alkyl group having 1 to 14 carbon atoms, provided that R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 are different from each other and the total number of carbon atoms in the phosphonium cation is 20 or less; and X represents an anion.
An electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries characterized by comprising: a tetraalkylphosphonium salt represented by general formula (1): ##STR00004## wherein R.sub.1 represents a linear, branched or alicyclic alkyl group having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and R.sub.2 represents a linear, branched or alicyclic alkyl group having 1 to 14 carbon atoms, provided that R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 are different from each other and the total number of carbon atoms in the phosphonium cation is 20 or less; and X represents an anion selected from the group consisting of SO.sub.3CF.sub.3, B(C.sub.2O.sub.4).sub.2, and N(SO.sub.2CF.sub.3).sub.2; and a lithium compound, wherein the lithium compound is one or more selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiSO.sub.3CF.sub.3, LiB(C.sub.2O.sub.4).sub.2, and LiN(SO.sub.2CF.sub.3).sub.2.
The electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1, characterized in that, in the general formula (1), R.sub.1 has a larger number of carbon atoms than R.sub.2.
The electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1, characterized in that, in the general formula (1), R.sub.2 has a larger number of carbon atoms than R.sub.1.
The electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1, characterized in that, in the general formula (1), R.sub.2 is a methyl group.
The electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1, characterized in that, in the general formula (1), R.sub.1 is an ethyl group.
The electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1, characterized in that the tetraalkylphosphonium salt represented by the general formula (1) is tri-n-butylmethylphosphonium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide.
The electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1, characterized in that the tetraalkylphosphonium salt represented by the general formula (1) is triethylmethylphosphonium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide.
The electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1, characterized by further comprising a nonaqueous solvent.
The electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1, characterized by comprising the tetraalkylphosphonium salt represented by the general formula (1) in an amount of 2% by volume or more and 70% by volume or less.
The electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1, characterized in that the lithium compound is two or more selected from the group consisting of LiPF.sub.6, LiBF.sub.4, LiSO.sub.3CF.sub.3, LiB(C.sub.2O.sub.4).sub.2, and LiN(SO.sub.2CF.sub.3).sub.2.
A lithium-ion secondary battery, characterized by using the electrolyte solution for lithium-ion secondary batteries according to claim 1.
Battery system thermal management
Electrochemical cell battery systems and associated methods of operation are provided based on the incorporation of a thermal management matrix including a supply of phase change material disposed at least in part in a heat conductive lattice member to effectively dissipate heat produced or generated by or in the battery system such as to minimize or prevent thermal runaway propagation in the electrochemical cells of the system.
A battery system comprising: an electrochemical cell array comprising a plurality of electrochemical cell elements and a thermal management matrix at least in part enveloping the electrochemical cell array and in thermal contact therewith, the thermal management matrix comprising a supply of phase change material disposed at least in part in a heat conductive lattice member, the thermal management matrix dissipating at least a portion of heat generated upon activation of at least a portion of the electrochemical cell array enveloped by the thermal management matrix.
The battery system of claim 1 wherein the thermal management matrix at least in part envelopes at least one of the plurality of electrochemical cell elements.
The battery system of claim 1 wherein adjacent electrochemical cell elements are at least in part spaced apart by the thermal management matrix.
The battery system of claim 1 wherein adjacent electrochemical cell elements are at least in part in direct contact.
The battery system of claim 1 wherein the electrochemical cell array comprises a plurality of lithium-based electrochemical cell elements.
The battery system of claim 1 wherein the heat conductive lattice member comprises graphite.
The battery system of claim 1 wherein the thermal management matrix comprises a supply of phase change material encapsulated in a heat conductive lattice member comprising expanded graphite.
The battery system of claim 7 wherein the phase change material comprises a paraffin wax.
The battery module comprising the battery system of claim 1.
A battery pack comprising a plurality of battery modules of claim 9.
A thermally managed lithium-based battery system, the system comprising: an electrochemical cell array comprising a plurality of lithium-based electrochemical cell elements and a thermal management matrix at least in part in thermal contact with at least one of the lithium-based electrochemical cell elements of the electrochemical cell array, thermal management matrix comprising a supply of phase change material, at least a portion of the supply of phase change material disposed in a heat conductive lattice member.
A thermally managed lithium-based battery system of claim 11 wherein the thermal management matrix at least in part individually envelopes more than one of the lithium-based electrochemical cell elements of the electrochemical cell array.
The thermally managed lithium-based battery system of claim 11 wherein the heat conductive lattice member comprises graphite.
The thermally managed lithium-based battery system of claim 13 wherein the thermal management matrix comprises a supply of phase change material micro-encapsulated in expanded graphite.
The battery module comprising the thermally managed lithium-based battery system of claim 11.
A battery pack comprising a plurality of battery modules of claim 15.
A method of avoiding thermal runaway propagation in an electrochemical cell array comprising a plurality of electrochemical cell elements, the method comprising: dissipating heat produced by at least a first electrochemical cell element of the electrochemical cell array at least in part via a thermal management matrix at least in part enveloping at least the first and a second electrochemical cell elements of the electrochemical cell array, wherein the thermal management matrix comprises a supply of phase change material at least in part disposed in a heat conductive lattice member, the heat being dissipated to at least one of the phase change material, the second electrochemical cell element and combinations thereof.
The method of claim 17 wherein the thermal management matrix at least in part individually envelopes a plurality of the electrochemical cell elements.
The method of claim 17 wherein the electrochemical cell array comprises a plurality of lithium-based electrochemical cell elements.
The method of claim 17 wherein the thermal management matrix comprises a supply of phase change material encapsulated in expanded graphite.
Electrolyte for lithium ion batteries
A non-aqueous electrolyte usable in rechargeable lithium-ion batteries including a solution of LiPF.sub.6/carbonate based electrolytes with low concentrations of LiFOP such that the thermal stability is increased compared to a standard lithium battery.
A method of making lithium tetrafluorophospahte (LiF.sub.4C.sub.2O.sub.4, LiFOP) including, reacting PF.sub.5 with lithium oxalate, recrystallizing DMC/dichloromethane from a 1:1 mixture of to separate LiF.sub.4OP from LiPF.sub.6 to form a lithium salt.
An electric current producing rechargeable Li-ion cell.
The rechargeable lithium ion cell includes an anode, a cathode, and a non-aqueous electrolyte comprising a solution of a lithium salt in a non-aqueous organic solvent containing lithium tetrafluorooxalatophosphate (LiPF.sub.4(C.sub.2O.sub.4), LiF.sub.4OP).
A method of making lithium tetrafluorophosphate (represented by LiPF.sub.4C.sub.2O.sub.4, or LiF.sub.4OP) for use as a lithium ion battery electrolyte, said method consisting essentially of the steps of: heating solid LiPF.sub.6 to 200.degree.
C. to produce PF.sub.5 gas; reacting the PF.sub.5 gas with lithium oxalate; and recrystallizing from a 1:1 mixture of dimethyl carbonate (DMC)/dichloromethane to separate LiF.sub.4OP from LiPF.sub.6 to form a lithium salt.
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said lithium tetrafluorophosphate is lithium tetrafluoro oxalato phosphate (represented by LiPF.sub.4C.sub.2O.sub.4).
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the LiPF.sub.6 is provided in a solution of LiPF.sub.6/carbonate based electrolytes with low concentrations of LiFOP of about 0.1-5.0% by wt.
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the LiPF.sub.6 is provided in a solution of LiPF.sub.6/carbonate based electrolytes with high concentrations of LiFOP of about 5.0-95.0% by wt.
The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said lithium ion salt is: ##STR00002## 6.
A method of making lithium tetrafluorophosphate (represented by LiPF.sub.4C.sub.2O.sub.4, or LiF.sub.4OP,) for use as a lithium ion battery electrolyte, said method consisting essentially of the steps of: heating solid LiPF.sub.6 to 200.degree.
C. to generate a PF.sub.5 gas; reacting the PF.sub.5 gas with lithium oxalate to provide a reaction mixture; stirring the reaction mixture; and recrystallizing from a 1:1 mixture of dimethyl carbonate/dichloromethane to remove LiPF.sub.6 from LiF.sub.4OP to form a lithium salt.
The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said steps of stirring the reaction mixture and recrystallizing from the 1:1 mixture of dimethyl carbonate/dichloromethane are repeated.
The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said step of stirring the reaction mixture is performed at a temperature of about 25.degree.
C. 9.
The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said method further has the step of transferring the PF.sub.5 gas via a stream of N.sub.2 into a suspension of lithium oxalate in dimethyl carbonate.
The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said suspension of lithium oxalate in dimethyl carbonate is provided at about 25.degree.
C.
Lithium-ion batteries with intrinsic pulse overcharge protection
The present invention relates in general to the field of lithium rechargeable batteries, and more particularly relates to the positive electrode design of lithium-ion batteries with improved high-rate pulse overcharge protection.
Thus the present invention provides electrochemical devices containing a cathode comprising at least one primary positive material and at least one secondary positive material; an anode; and a non-aqueous electrolyte comprising a redox shuttle additive; wherein the redox potential of the redox shuttle additive is greater than the redox potential of the primary positive material; the redox potential of the redox shuttle additive is lower than the redox potential of the secondary positive material; and the redox shuttle additive is stable at least up to the redox potential of the secondary positive material.
An electrochemical device comprising: a cathode comprising at least one primary positive material and at least one secondary positive material; an anode; and a non-aqueous electrolyte comprising a redox shuttle additive; wherein the redox potential of the redox shuttle additive is greater than the redox potential of the primary positive material; the redox potential of the redox shuttle additive is lower than the redox potential of the secondary positive material; and the redox shuttle additive is stable at least up to the redox potential of the secondary positive material.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the primary positive material is a lithium metal oxide or a mixture of two or more lithium metal oxides, and the secondary positive material is a lithium metal oxide or a mixture of two or more lithium metal oxides.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the primary positive material is selected from the group consisting of: Li.sub.2S, spinet, olivine, carbon-coated olivine, LiFePO.sub.4, LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.1-xCo.sub.yMet.sub.zO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.0.5Ni.sub.0.5O.sub.2, LiMn.sub.0.3Co.sub.0.3Ni.sub.0.3O.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiFeO.sub.2, LiMet.sub.0.5Mn.sub.1.5O.sub.4, Li.sub.1+xMn.sub.2-xO.sub.4, Li.sub.1+x'Ni.sub..alpha.Mn.sub..beta.Co.sub..gamma.Met'.sub..delta.O.sub- .2-z'Y'.sub.z', A.sub.n'B'.sub.2(XO.sub.4).sub.3, and mixtures of any two or more thereof, wherein Met is Al, Mg, Ti, B, Ga, Si, Mn, or Co; Met' is Mg, Zn, Al, Ga, B, Zr, or Ti; A is Li, Ag, Cu, Na, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, or Zn; B' is Ti, V, Cr, Fe, or Zr; X is P, S, Si, W, or Mo; Y' is F or S; and further wherein 0.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.3, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.5; 0.ltoreq.x'.ltoreq.0.5; 0.ltoreq.x'.ltoreq.0.4, 0.ltoreq..alpha..ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq..beta..ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq..gamma..ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq..delta..ltoreq.0.4, and 0.ltoreq.z'.ltoreq.0.4; and 0.ltoreq.n'.ltoreq.3.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the primary positive is selected from the group consisting of: spinel, olivine, carbon-coated olivine, Li.sub.1+xMn.sub.2-xMet.sub.yO.sub.4-mX.sub.n, LiFe.sub.1-zMet''.sub.yPO.sub.4-mX.sub.n, and mixtures of any two or more thereof, wherein Met is Al, Mg, Ti, B, Ga, Si, Ni, or Co; Met'' is Al, Mg, Ti, B, Ga, Si, Ni, Mn or Co; X is S or F; 0.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.3, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.m.ltoreq.0.5, and 0.ltoreq.n.ltoreq.0.5.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the primary positive electrode material may be further stabilized by surface coating the particles of the spinel or olivine with a metal oxide selected from the group consisting of: ZrO.sub.2, TiO.sub.2, ZnO.sub.2, WO.sub.3, Al.sub.2O.sub.3, MgO, SiO.sub.2, SnO.sub.2, AlPO.sub.4, Al(OH).sub.3, and mixtures of any two or more thereof.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the secondary positive material is selected from the group consisting of: spinel, olivine, carbon-coated olivine, LiFePO.sub.4, LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.1-xCo.sub.yMet.sub.zO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.0.5Ni.sub.0.5O.sub.2, LiMn.sub.0.3Co.sub.0.3Ni.sub.0.3O.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiFeO.sub.2, LiMet.sub.0.5Mn.sub.1.5O.sub.4, Li.sub.1+x'Ni.sub..alpha.Mn.sub..beta.Co.sub..gamma.Met'.sub..delta.O.sub- .2-z'Y'.sub.z', A.sub.n'B'.sub.2(XO.sub.4).sub.3, Li.sub.1+xMn.sub.2-xO.sub.4, LiMn.sub.1-x''-y''Ni.sub.x''Co.sub.y''O.sub.2, and mixtures of any two or more thereof, wherein Met is Al, Mg, Ti, B, Ga, Si, Mn, or Co; Met' is Mg, Zn, Al, Ga, B, Zr, or Ti; A is Li, Ag, Cu, Na, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, are Zn; B' is Ti, V, Cr, Fe, or Zr; X is P, S, Si, W, or Mo; Y' is F or S; and further wherein 0.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.3, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.5; 0.ltoreq.x'.ltoreq.0.4, 0.ltoreq..alpha..ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq..beta..ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq..gamma..ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq..delta..ltoreq.0.4, and 0.ltoreq.z'.ltoreq.0.4; 0.ltoreq.n'.ltoreq.3; and 0.ltoreq.x''.ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq.y''.ltoreq.1, and 0.ltoreq.x''+y''.ltoreq.1.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the secondary positive material is selected from the group consisting of: spinel, olivine, carbon-coated olivine, Li.sub.1+xMn.sub.2-zMet.sub.yO.sub.4-mX.sub.n, LiFe.sub.1-zMet'.sub.yPO.sub.4-mX.sub.n, and mixtures of any two or more thereof, wherein Met is Al, Mg, Ti, B, Ga, Si, Ni, or Co; Met'' is Al, Mg, Ti, B, Ga, Si, Ni, Mn or Co; X is S or F; 0.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.0.3, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.0.5, 0.ltoreq.m.ltoreq.0.5, and 0.ltoreq.n.ltoreq.0.5.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the secondary positive electrode material may be further stabilized by surface coating the particles of the spinel or olivine with a metal oxide selected from the group consisting of: ZrO.sub.2, TiO.sub.2, ZnO.sub.2, WO.sub.3, Al.sub.2O.sub.3, MgO, SiO.sub.2, SnO.sub.2, AlPO.sub.4, Al(OH).sub.3, and mixtures of any two or more thereof.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the redox shuttle additive is substituted or unsubstituted ferrocene, or a mixture of two or more thereof.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the redox shuttle additive is a substituted or unsubstituted aromatic compound.
The electrochemical device of claim 10, wherein the substituted aromatic compound is a compound of formula I: ##STR00011## wherein R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 are each independently selected from the group consisting of H, --F, --Cl, --Br, --I, haloalkyl, cycloalkyl, alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, --CN, --NO.sub.2, --O-alkyl, --O-aryl, --O-heteroaryl, --S-alkyl, --S-aryl, --S-heteroaryl, and a moiety selected from the group consisting of: ##STR00012## provided that at least one of R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 is not H; or any two adjacent groups of R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 together form a fused aryl or heteroaryl ring; each R.sub.7, R.sub.8 and R.sub.9 is independently a hydrogen, halogen, an alkyl group, an aryl group, a haloalkyl group, or a haloaryl group; each R.sub.10, R.sub.11 and R.sub.12 is independently a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group, a haloalkyl group, or a haloaryl group; M.sup.+ is a cation; and A.sup.- is an anion.
The electrochemical device of claim 11, wherein two or more of R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 are each independently an --O-alkyl, --O-aryl, or --O-heteroaryl group.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the redox shuttle additive is 2,5-di-(tert-butyl)-1,4-dimethoxybenzene, or a mixture of 2,5-di-(tert-butyl)-1,4-dimethoxybenzene and (tetrafluorobenzo-1,2-dioxyl)-pentafluorophenyl-borane.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the redox shuttle additive is Li.sub.2B.sub.10X.sub.10 or Li.sub.2B.sub.12X.sub.12; wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of H, F, Cl, Br, I, OCH.sub.3, and OH.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the redox shuttle additive has a redox potential vs. Li.sup.0 from about 3.0V to about 5.0V.
The electrochemical device of claim 15, wherein the redox shuttle additive is Li.sub.2B.sub.10X.sub.10 or Li.sub.2B.sub.12X.sub.12; wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of H, F, Cl, Br, I, OCH.sub.3, and OH.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the redox shuttle additive is a mixture of two or more compounds selected from the group consisting of substituted or unsubstituted ferrocene; 2,5-di-(tert-butyl)-1,4-dimethoxybenzene; (tetrafluorobenzo-1,2-dioxyl)-pentafluorophenyl-borane; Li.sub.2B.sub.10X.sub.10 or Li.sub.2B.sub.12X.sub.12, wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of H, F, Cl, Br, I, OCH.sub.3, and OH; and a compound of formula I: ##STR00013## wherein: R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 are each independently selected from the group consisting of H, --F, --Cl, --Br, --I, haloalkyl, cycloalkyl, alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, --CN, --NO.sub.2, --O-alkyl, --O-aryl, --O-heteroaryl, --S-alkyl, --S-aryl, --S-heteroaryl, and a moiety selected from the group consisting of: ##STR00014## provided that at least one of R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 is not H; or any two adjacent groups of R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 together form a fused aryl or heteroaryl ring; each R.sub.7, R.sub.8 and R.sub.9 is independently a hydrogen, halogen, an alkyl group, an aryl group, a haloalkyl group, or a haloaryl group; each R.sub.10, R.sub.11 and R.sub.12 is independently a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group, a haloalkyl group, or a haloaryl group; M.sup.+is a cation; and A.sup.- is an anion.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte further comprises a lithium salt.
The electrochemical device of claim 18, wherein the lithium salt is Li[B(C.sub.2O.sub.4).sub.2], Li[BF.sub.2(C.sub.2O.sub.4)], Li[PF.sub.2(C.sub.2O.sub.4).sub.2], LiClO.sub.4, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, LiCF.sub.3SO.sub.3, Li[N(CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.2], Li[C(CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.3], Li[N(SO.sub.2C.sub.2F.sub.5).sub.2], lithium alkyl fluorophosphates, or a mixture of any two or more thereof.
The electrochemical device of claim 18, wherein the lithium salt is Li.sub.2B.sub.10X.sub.10 or Li.sub.2B.sub.12X.sub.12; wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of H, F, Cl, Br, I, OCH.sub.3, and OH.
The electrochemical device of claim 18, wherein the lithium salt is a mixture of two or more of: Li[B(C.sub.2O.sub.4).sub.2], Li[BF.sub.2(C.sub.2O.sub.4)], Li[PF.sub.2(C.sub.2O.sub.4).sub.2], LiClO.sub.4, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, LiCF.sub.3SO.sub.3, Li[N(CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.2], Li[C(CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.3], Li[N(SO.sub.2C.sub.2F.sub.5).sub.2], Li.sub.2B.sub.10X.sub.10, and Li.sub.2B.sub.12X.sub.12; wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of H, F, Cl, Br, I, OCH.sub.3, and OH.
The electrochemical device of claim 1, wherein the electrochemical device is a lithium secondary battery; the primary positive material is a lithium metal oxide or a mixture of two or more lithium metal oxides; the secondary positive material is a lithium metal oxide or a mixture of two or more lithium metal oxides different from the primary positive material; the anode is graphite, amorphous carbon, Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12, tin alloys, silicon alloys, intermetallic compounds, lithium metal, or mixtures of any two or more thereof; and the anode and cathode are separated from each other by a porous separator.
The electrochemical device of claim 22, wherein the redox shuttle additive is a mixture of two or more compounds selected from the group consisting of: substituted or unsubstituted ferrocene; 2,5-di-(tert-butyl)-1,4-dimethoxybenzene; (tetrafluorobenzo-1,2-dioxyl)-pentafluorophenyl-borane; Li.sub.2B.sub.10X.sub.10 or Li.sub.2B.sub.12X.sub.12, wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of H, F, Cl, Br, I, OCH.sub.3, and OH; and a compound of formula I: ##STR00015## wherein: R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 are each independently selected from the group consisting of H, --F, --Cl, --Br, --I, haloalkyl, cycloalkyl, alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, --CN, --NO.sub.2, --O-alkyl, --O-aryl, --O-heteroaryl, --S-alkyl, --S-aryl, --S-heteroaryl, and a moiety selected from the group consisting of: ##STR00016## provided that at least one of R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 is not H; or any two adjacent groups of R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3, R.sub.4, R.sub.5 and R.sub.6 together form a fused aryl or heteroaryl ring; each R.sub.7, R.sub.8 and R.sub.9 is independently a hydrogen, halogen, an alkyl group, an aryl group, a haloalkyl group, or a haloaryl group; each R.sub.10, R.sub.11 and R.sub.12 is independently a halogen atom, an alkyl group, an aryl group, a haloalkyl group, or a haloaryl group; M.sup.+is a cation; and A.sup.-is an anion.
A electrochemical device comprising: a cathode comprising at least one primary positive material and at least one secondary positive material; an anode; and a non-aqueous electrolyte comprising; Li.sub.2B.sub.10X.sub.10, Li.sub.2B.sub.12X.sub.12, or a mixture thereof; wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of H, F, Cl, Br, I, OCH.sub.3, and OH; a polar aprotic solvent; and a redox shuttle additive; wherein, the primary positive material is LiFePO.sub.4; the secondary positive material is spinel, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiCoO.sub.2, LiCo.sub.1-.alpha.'Al.sub..alpha.
'O.sub.2, or Li.sub.1+x'Ni.sub..alpha.Mn.sub..beta.Co.sub..gamma.Met'.sub..delta.O.sub- .2-z'Y'.sub.z', wherein Met' is Mg, Zn, Al, Ga, B, Zr, or Ti; A is Li, Ag, Cu, Na, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn; Y' is F or S; 0.ltoreq..alpha.
'.ltoreq.0.2, 0.ltoreq.x'.ltoreq.0.4, 0.ltoreq..alpha..ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq..beta..ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq..gamma..ltoreq.1, 0.ltoreq..delta..ltoreq.0.4, and 0.ltoreq.z'.ltoreq.0.4; and the redox shuttle is 2,5-di-(tert-butyl)-1,4-dimethoxybenzene.
Lithium/carbon monofluoride batteries with organosilicon electrolytes
Disclosed are lithium/carbon monofluoride batteries suitable for long term use at highly elevated temperatures.
Organosilicon electrolytes having low vapor pressure and high flash points are used, along with lithium salts and ceramic separators.
Methods of using these batteries at high temperatures are also disclosed.
A battery suitable to deliver stored energy at above 130.degree.
C. for a period of greater than five hours, comprising: a cathode comprising carbon monofluoride; an anode comprising lithium metal; a separator; and an electrolyte which comprises an organosilicon compound selected from the group consisting of: (a) Me.sub.3Si--O--(CH.sub.2CH.sub.2O).sub.3-Me; and (b) ##STR00003## wherein R.sub.1 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl moieties of less than five carbons, and ##STR00004## wherein R.sub.5, R.sub.6 and R.sub.7 are the same or different, and each is selected from the group consisting of alkyl moieties of less than five carbons; wherein R.sub.2, R.sub.3 and R.sub.4 are the same or different, and each is selected from the group consisting of alkyl moieties of less than five carbons and R.sub.8--O(CH.sub.2CH.sub.2O).sub.r--, where R.sub.8 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl moieties of less than five carbons; wherein n is 2 or 3; and wherein r is equal to or higher than 1 and lower than 10.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the separator comprises alumina.
A method of using a battery to deliver energy, comprising: obtaining a battery comprising: a cathode comprising carbon monofluoride; an anode comprising lithium metal; a separator comprising a ceramic material; and an electrolyte comprising an organosilicon compound having a flash point above 180.degree.
C. and a vapor pressure below 2 torr at 25.degree.
C.; and exposing the battery to a temperature at or above 150.degree.
C. and delivering stored energy from the battery at that temperature for a period of at least five hours.
The method of claim 3, wherein the organosilicon compound comprises the following moiety: ##STR00005## wherein R.sub.1 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl moieties of less than five carbons, and ##STR00006## wherein R.sub.5, R.sub.6 and R.sub.7 are the same or different, and each is selected from the group consisting of alkyl moieties of less than five carbons; wherein R.sub.2, R.sub.3 and R.sub.4 are the same or different, and each is selected from the group consisting of alkyl moieties of less than five carbons and R.sub.8--O(CH.sub.2CH.sub.2O).sub.r--, where R.sub.8 is selected from the group consisting of alkyl moieties of less than five carbons; wherein m is equal to or higher than 0 and lower than 11; and wherein r and n are the same or different and equal to or higher than 1 and lower than 10.
The method of claim 3, wherein the separator is not made of a plastic material.
The method of claim 5, wherein the separator comprises a ceramic material.
The method of claim 3, wherein the battery is suitable to deliver stored energy at above 150.degree.
C. for a period of greater than five hours.
The method of claim 3, wherein the electrolyte is a liquid and further comprises a salt.
The method of claim 8, wherein the salt is a lithium salt.
The method of claim 9, wherein the lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of lithium-tetrafluoroborate, lithium hexafluorophosphate, lithium-bis(trifluoromethyl-sulfonyl)imide, and lithium bis-(oxalatoborate).
The method of claim 10, wherein the lithium salt is lithium bis-(oxalatoborate).
The method of claim 3, wherein the cathode further comprises a metallic current collector, where the metallic current collector is bonded to a mixture of carbon monofluoride, a polyvinylidene fluoride binder, and acetylene black conductivity aid by drop drying the mixture on the collector.
A method of using a battery to deliver energy, comprising: obtaining a battery comprising: a cathode comprising carbon monofluoride; an anode comprising lithium metal; a separator comprising a ceramic material; and an electrolyte comprising an organosilicon compound having a flash point above 180.degree.
C. and a vapor pressure below 2 torr at 25.degree.
C.; and exposing the battery to a temperature at or above 130.degree.
C. and delivering stored energy from the battery at that temperature.
The method of claim 13, wherein the exposing step comprises exposing the battery to a temperature at or above 130.degree.
C. and delivering stored energy from the battery at that temperature for a period of at least five hours.
Hydrogen-based electrochemical energy storage
An energy storage device (100) providing high storage densities via hydrogen storage.
The device (100) includes a counter electrode (110), a storage electrode (130), and an ion conducting membrane (120) positioned between the counter electrode (110) and the storage electrode (130).
The counter electrode (110) is formed of one or more materials with an affinity for hydrogen and includes an exchange matrix for elements/materials selected from the non-noble materials that have an affinity for hydrogen.
The storage electrode (130) is loaded with hydrogen such as atomic or mono-hydrogen that is adsorbed by a hydrogen storage material such that the hydrogen (132, 134) may be stored with low chemical bonding.
The hydrogen storage material is typically formed of a lightweight material such as carbon or boron with a network of passage-ways or intercalants for storing and conducting mono-hydrogen, protons, or the like.
The hydrogen storage material may store at least ten percent by weight hydrogen (132, 134) at ambient temperature and pressure.
An energy storage device, comprising: a counter electrode; a storage electrode loaded with a hydrogen storage material, wherein hydrogen is retained in the hydrogen storage material with relatively low chemical bonding and wherein the counter electrode comprises a material having an affinity for hydrogen greater than the low molecular weight hydrogen storage material; and an ion conducting membrane interposed between the counter electrode and the storage electrode.
The energy storage device of claim 1, wherein the hydrogen storage material comprises a low molecular weight material having an atomic weight of less than about 20.
The energy storage device of claim 2, wherein the hydrogen storage material comprises at least one of hydrogen, lithium, beryllium, carbon, boron, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, sodium, magnesium, aluminum, silicon, phosphorous, sulfur, chlorine, potassium, calcium, and other elements in combination.
The energy storage device of claim 1, wherein the hydrogen storage material adsorbs the retained hydrogen.
The energy storage device of claim 4, wherein the retained hydrogen in the hydrogen storage material comprises at least one of protons, mono-hydrogen, and dihydrogen and wherein the storage electrode comprises a network of passageways for storage and conduction of the retained hydrogen.
The energy storage device of claim 1, wherein the counter electrode comprises an exchange matrix for materials selected from the group consisting of non-noble elements with an affinity for hydrogen.
The energy storage device of claim 1, wherein the hydrogen storage material stores at least about 10 percent by weight of the retained hydrogen at ambient temperature and pressure.
The energy storage device of claim 7, wherein the hydrogen storage material stores at least about 15 percent by weight of the retained hydrogen and wherein the energy storage device has a stored energy density of greater than about 4500 Watt hours per kilogram.
The hydrogen storage device of claim 7, wherein the hydrogen storage materials stores at least about 10 percent by weight of the retained hydrogen at sub-ambient temperatures and pressures and at higher than ambient temperatures and pressures.
An energy storage device, comprising: a cathode layer comprising at least one material with an affinity for hydrogen; an anode layer comprising a low molecular weight hydrogen storage material including at least one elemental material with an atomic weight of less than about 20, whereby a quantity of hydrogen is stored in the hydrogen storage material with relatively low chemical bonding; and a membrane sandwiched between the cathode layer and the storage electrode that is adapted for conducting hydrogen ions between the layers.
The energy storage device of claim 10, wherein the counter electrode further comprises at least one dissociation material.
The energy storage device of claim 10, wherein the one elemental material is one of: hydrogen, lithium, beryllium, carbon, boron, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, sodium, magnesium, aluminum, silicon, phosphorous, sulfur, chlorine, potassium, calcium, and other elemental materials in combination.
The energy storage device of claim 10, wherein the hydrogen storage material adsorbs the stored hydrogen.
The energy storage device of claim 13, wherein the adsorbed hydrogen comprises protons, mono-hydrogen, or dihydrogen and wherein the storage electrode comprises a network of passageways for storage and conduction of the adsorbed hydrogen.
A hydrogen-based electrochemical storage device, comprising: a counter electrode comprising an exchange matrix for elements selected from the group consisting of non-noble elements with an affinity for hydrogen; a hydrogen storage electrode loaded with a hydrogen storage material, wherein hydrogen is retained in the hydrogen storage material via chemical bonding with less energy than provided in carbon-hydrogen bonding; and a layer of ion conducting material interposed between the counter electrode and the storage electrode.
The storage device of claim 15, wherein the exchange matrix further contains elements or compounds assisting in the electrochemical and dissociation processes of the materials selected from the group consisting of non-noble elements with an affinity for hydrogen.
The storage device of claim 15, wherein the counter electrode comprises an exchange matrix that comprises elements or compounds with at least one of: iron, cobalt, nickel, technetium, ruthenium, rhodium palladium, rhenium osmium, iridium, platinum, mercury, catalytic alloys, and other materials with an affinity for hydrogen.
The storage device of claim 15, wherein the hydrogen storage material stores at least about 10 percent by weight of the hydrogen at ambient temperature and pressure.
The storage device of claim 18, wherein the hydrogen storage material stores at least about 15 percent by weight of the hydrogen and wherein the storage device has a stored energy density of greater than about 4500 Watt hours per kilogram.
The storage device of claim 18, wherein the hydrogen storage materials stores up to about 10 percent or more by weight of the hydrogen at temperatures and pressures that are either lower than ambient or higher than ambient.
Autogenic pressure reactions for battery materials manufacture
A lithium- or lithium-ion electrochemical cell of the present invention comprises a lithium-containing cathode, an anode, and a non-aqueous lithium-containing electrolyte therebetween; wherein one or more of the anode and the cathode comprises at least one particulate carbon-containing material selected from the group consisting of one or more carbon-coated metal oxide or metal phosphate particles, carbon-containing metals that alloy with Li, carbon-containing metalloids that alloy with Li, or rounded carbon particles such as carbon spheres, prolate-shaped spheroids, oblate-shaped spheroids, and carbon nanotubes.
In a preferred embodiment, the particulate carbon material is prepared by reacting one or more solid, solvent-free chemical precursor materials comprising the elements making up the material in an enclosed autogenic pressure reactor in which the precursor materials are dissociated and reacted at elevated temperature, thereby creating self-generated pressure within the reactor.
A lithium or lithium-ion electrochemical cell comprising a cathode, an anode, and a non-aqueous lithium-containing electrolyte therebetween, wherein one or more of the anode and the cathode comprises at least one particulate carbon-containing material selected from the group consisting of: (a) a particulate metal oxide/carbon composite material comprising metal oxide core particles coated with carbon, the metal oxide comprising one or more ions selected from the group consisting of Ti, Fe, Mn, Co, Ni, Mo, W, In, and Sn, optionally in combination with Li ions, (b) a particulate metal/carbon composite material comprising metal core particles coated with carbon, the core comprising one or more metal that can alloy with Li selected from the group consisting of Mg, Al, Ga, In, Sn, and Sb, and (c) a particulate metal phosphate/carbon composite material.sub.-- comprising metal phosphate core particles coated with carbon, wherein the metal phosphate comprises one or more ions selected from the group consisting of Ti, V, Mn, Ni, and Co, optionally in combination with Li ions; and wherein the particulate carbon-containing material is prepared by heating one or more precursor materials in a sealed autogenic pressure reactor at a temperature and for a period of time sufficient to dissociate the one or more precursor material into at least one gaseous component and thereby generate a pressure sufficient for components of the dissociated precursor material to combine and form the particulate carbon-containing material; wherein the combined amount and combined chemical composition of each precursor material in the reactor is sufficient to form the particulate carbon-containing material.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 in which carbon-containing material is a stoichiometric, defect, or disordered material with respect to composition and atomic, cationic or anionic sites.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 in which the reactor is operated under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure of about 2000 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature of about 800.degree.
C. 4.
The electrochemical cell of claim 3 in which the reactor is operated under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure of about 1200 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature of about 600.degree.
C. 5.
The electrochemical cell of claim 4 in which the reactor is operated under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure of about 800 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature of about 300.degree.
C. 6.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the particulate carbon-containing material is a carbon-coated metal oxide or metal phosphate nanoparticle material comprising particles having a titanium oxide core, a tin oxide core, or a LiMPO.sub.4 olivine core coated with about 0.5 to about 30 percent by weight of carbon, the particles having a size in the range of about 5 to about 150 nm, and wherein M comprises one or more metals selected from the group consisting of Fe, Mn, Ni and Co. 7.
The electrochemical cell of claim 6 wherein the particulate carbon-containing material is prepared by reacting one or more solid or liquid, solvent-free chemical precursor materials in an enclosed autogenic pressure reactor in which the precursor materials are dissociated and reacted at elevated temperature, thereby creating self-generated pressure within the reactor; the precursor materials comprising one or more precursor compounds comprising carbon, oxygen and any other elements making up the nanoparticle material; the reactor operating under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure in the range of about 800 to about 2000 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature in the range of about 300 to about 800.degree.
C. 8.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the particulate carbon-containing material comprises a carbon-coated metal oxide nanoparticle material comprising titanium dioxide core particles coated with about 0.5 to about 30 percent by weight of carbon, the nanoparticle material having a size in the range of about 5 to about 150 nm, and wherein the titanium dioxide core particles are predominately single phase anatase TiO.sub.2.
The electrochemical cell of claim 8 wherein the carbon-coated metal oxide nanoparticle material is prepared by reacting one or more solid, solvent-free titanium carboxylate precursor materials in an enclosed autogenic pressure reactor in which the precursor materials are dissociated and reacted at elevated temperature, thereby creating self-generated pressure within the reactor; and optionally including an additional step of heating the product obtained from the autogenic pressure reactor in air to reduce the amount of carbon coating the product; the reactor operating under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure in the range of about 800 to about 2000 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature in the range of about 300 to about 800.degree.
C. 10.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the particulate carbon-containing material comprises a carbon-coated metal oxide nanoparticle material comprising tin dioxide core particles having a size in the range of about 5 to about 20 nm, coated with about 1 to about 4 nm of carbon, and wherein the tin dioxide core particles are predominately cassiterite-type SnO.sub.2.
The electrochemical cell of claim 10 wherein the carbon-coated metal oxide nanoparticle material is prepared by reacting one or more solid, solvent-free tin alkoxylate precursor materials in an enclosed autogenic pressure reactor in which the precursor materials are dissociated and reacted at elevated temperature, thereby creating self-generated pressure within the reactor; and optionally including an additional step of heating the product obtained from the autogenic pressure reactor in air to reduce the amount of carbon coating the product; and the reactor operates under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure in the range of about 800 to about 2000 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature in the range of about 300 to about 800.degree.
C. 12.
The electrochemical cell of claim 1 wherein the particulate carbon-containing material comprises a carbon-coated metal phosphate nanoparticle material comprising LiMPO.sub.4 olivine core particles coated with about 5 to about 30 percent by weight of carbon, the nanoparticulate material having a size in the range of about 5 to about 150 nm, and wherein M comprises one or more metals selected from the group consisting of Fe, Mn, Ni and Co. 13.
The electrochemical cell of claim 12 wherein the carbon-coated metal phosphate nanoparticle material is prepared by reacting one or more solid, solvent-free precursor materials in an enclosed autogenic pressure reactor in which the precursor materials are dissociated and reacted at elevated temperature, thereby creating self-generated pressure within the reactor; and optionally including an additional step of heating the product obtained from the autogenic pressure reactor in air to reduce the amount of carbon coating the product, wherein the precursor materials include at one or more compounds comprising carbon, oxygen, phosphate, Li, and a metal selected from Fe, Mn, Ni or Co; and the reactor operates under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure in the range of about 800 to about 2000 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature in the range of about 300 to about 800.degree.
C. 14.
The electrochemical cell of claim 13 wherein the precursor materials comprise a Fe, Mn, Ni or Co carboxylate and a lithium phosphate salt.
The electrochemical cell of claim 13 wherein the precursor materials comprise a Fe, Mn, Ni or Co phosphate and a lithium carbonate salt.
A battery comprising a plurality of electrochemical cells of claim 1 arranged in parallel, in series, or both.
A method for fabricating a carbon-coated particulate metal oxide, metal phosphate, metal, or metalloid material suitable for use in an electrochemical cell, comprising heating one or more precursor materials in a sealed autogenic pressure reactor at a temperature and for a period of time sufficient to dissociate the one or more precursor material into at least one gaseous component and thereby generate a pressure sufficient for components of the dissociated precursor material to combine and form the carbon-coated particulate material.
The method of claim 17 wherein the particulate carbon-containing material comprises a carbon-coated metal oxide nanoparticle material comprising titanium dioxide core particles coated with about 0.5 to about 30 percent by weight of carbon, the nanoparticle material having a size in the range of about 5 to about 150 nm, the titanium dioxide core particles are predominately single phase anatase TiO.sub.2, and wherein the carbon-coated metal oxide nanoparticle material is prepared by reacting one or more solid, solvent-free titanium carboxylate precursor materials in an enclosed autogenic pressure reactor in which the precursor materials are dissociated and reacted at elevated temperature, thereby creating self-generated pressure within the reactor; and optionally including an additional step of heating the product obtained from the autogenic pressure reactor in air to reduce the amount of carbon coating the product; the reactor operating under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure in the range of about 800 to about 2000 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature in the range of about 300 to about 800.degree.
C. 19.
The method of claim 17 wherein the particulate carbon-containing material comprises a carbon-coated metal oxide nanoparticle material comprising tin dioxide core particles having a size in the range of about 5 to about 20 nm, coated with about 1 to about 4 nm of carbon, the tin dioxide core particles are predominately cassiterite-type SnO.sub.2, and wherein the carbon-coated metal oxide nanoparticle material is prepared by reacting one or more solid, solvent-free tin alkoxylate precursor materials in an enclosed autogenic pressure reactor in which the precursor materials are dissociated and reacted at elevated temperature, thereby creating self-generated pressure within the reactor; and optionally including an additional step of heating the product obtained from the autogenic pressure reactor in air to reduce the amount of carbon coating the product; and the reactor operates under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure in the range of about 800 to about 2000 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature in the range of about 300 to about 800.degree.
C. 20.
The method of claim 17 wherein the particulate carbon-containing material comprises a carbon-coated metal phosphate nanoparticle material comprising LiMPO.sub.4 olivine core particles coated with about 5 to about 30 percent by weight of carbon, the nanoparticulate material having a size in the range of about 5 to about 150 nm, M comprises one or more metals selected from the group consisting of Fe, Mn, Ni and Co, and wherein the carbon-coated metal phosphate nanoparticle material is prepared by reacting one or more solid, solvent-free precursor materials in an enclosed autogenic pressure reactor in which the precursor materials are dissociated and reacted at elevated temperature, thereby creating self-generated pressure within the reactor; and optionally including an additional step of heating the product obtained from the autogenic pressure reactor in air to reduce the amount of carbon coating the product, wherein the precursor materials include at one or more compounds comprising carbon, oxygen, phosphate, Li, and a metal selected from Fe, Mn, Ni or Co; and the reactor operates under conditions ranging from a minimum working pressure of about 100 pounds per square inch and a minimum temperature of about 100.degree.
C., to a maximum working pressure in the range of about 800 to about 2000 pounds per square inch and a maximum temperature in the range of about 300 to about 800.degree.
C.
Metal oxide negative electrodes for lithium-ion electrochemical cells and  batteries
Provided are negative electrode compositions for lithium-ion electrochemical cells that include metal oxides and polymeric binders.
Also provided are electrochemical cells and battery packs that include electrodes made with these compositions.
An electrode composition for a negative electrode comprising: a powdered material; and a polymeric binder, wherein the powdered material includes an intercalating metal oxide, wherein the metal oxide is capable of undergoing lithiation and delithiation, and wherein the polymeric binder includes a lithium polyacrylate, and wherein the powdered material comprises LiVO.sub.2 in which up to 15 mole percent of the V is replaced by a combination of lithium and molybdenum.
A lithium-ion electrochemical cell comprising: a positive electrode, an electrolyte; and a negative electrode that comprises an electrode composition according to claim 1.
A battery pack comprising at least one lithium-ion electrochemical cell according to claim 2.
An electronic device comprising a battery pack according to claim 3.
An electrode composition for a negative electrode comprising: a powdered material; and a polymeric binder, wherein the powdered material includes an intercalating metal oxide, wherein the metal oxide is capable of undergoing lithiation and delithiation, and wherein the polymeric binder includes a lithium polyacrylate, and wherein the powdered material comprises at least one of LiVO.sub.2, Li.sub.1.1V.sub.0.85Mo.sub.0.05O.sub.2, Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12, TiO.sub.2, WO.sub.2, or MoO.sub.2.
A lithium-ion electrochemical cell comprising: a positive electrode, an electrolyte; and a negative electrode that comprises an electrode composition according to claim 5.
A battery pack comprising at least one lithium-ion electrochemical cell according to claim 6.
An electronic device comprising a battery pack according to claim 7.
Negative active material for lithium secondary battery, and lithium  secondary battery including same
The present invention relates to negative electrode materials for rechargeable lithium batteries and to rechargeable lithium batteries including the same.
The negative electrode materials improve the capacity characteristics and cycle-life characteristics of the rechargeable lithium batteries.
The negative electrode material includes a negative active material capable of intercalating and deintercalating lithium ions, and the negative active material includes an oxide particle represented by Li.sub.xM.sub.yV.sub.zO.sub.2+d and having a full width at half maximum of a X-ray diffraction angle (2.theta.)
at a (003) plane of 0.2 degrees or more as measured by X-ray diffraction analysis using a CuK.alpha.ray.
A negative active material for a rechargeable lithium battery comprising: a mechanically milled oxide capable of intercalating and deintercalating lithium ions, the oxide being represented by Formula 1 and having a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction angle (2.theta.)
at a (003) plane of 0.2 degrees or greater as measured by X-ray diffraction analysis using a CuK .alpha.
ray: Li.sub.xM.sub.yV.sub.zO.sub.2+d Formula 1 wherein 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2.5, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5, 0.5.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1.5, 0.ltoreq.d.ltoreq.0.5, and M is selected from the group consisting of Al, Cr, Mo, Ti, W, Zr, Mg, and combinations thereof, and wherein the oxide has an average particle diameter of less than 1 .mu.m.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the mechanically milled oxide has a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction angle (2.theta.)
at a (003) plane of 0.25 degrees or greater as measured by X-ray diffraction analysis using a CuK .alpha.
ray.
The negative active material of claim 1, wherein the negative active material further comprises an additional material selected from the group consisting of carbon, transition elements, transition element alloys, and mixtures thereof.
The negative active material of claim 3, wherein the mechanically milled oxide represented by Formula 1 is coated on a surface of the additional material.
The negative active material of claim 3, wherein the additional material comprises a transition element alloy comprising an A-B alloy, wherein A is a transition element, and B is selected from the group consisting of transition elements, alkali metals, alkaline earth metals, aluminum, gallium, indium, carbon, silicon, germanium, tin, antimony, selenium, tellurium, and combinations thereof, wherein when B is a transition element, B and A are not the same transition element.
A rechargeable lithium battery comprising: a positive electrode; a non-aqueous electrolyte; and a negative active material comprising: a mechanically milled oxide capable of intercalating and deintercalating lithium ions, the oxide being represented by Formula 1 and having a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction angle (2.theta.)
at a (003) plane of 0.2 degrees or greater as measured by X-ray diffraction analysis using a CuK .alpha.
ray: Li.sub.xM.sub.yV.sub.zO.sub.2+d Formula 1 wherein 0.1.ltoreq.x.ltoreq.2.5, 0.ltoreq.y.ltoreq.0.5, 0.5.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1.5, 0.ltoreq.d.ltoreq.0.5, and M is selected from the group consisting of Al, Cr, Mo, Ti, W, Zr, Mg, and combinations thereof, and wherein the oxide has an average particle diameter of less than 1 .mu.m.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 6, wherein the mechanically milled oxide has a full width at half maximum of an X-ray diffraction angle (2.theta.)
at a (003) plane of 0.25 degrees or greater as measured by X-ray diffraction analysis using a CuK .alpha.
ray.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 6, wherein the negative active material further comprises an additional material selected from the group consisting of carbon, transition elements, transition element alloys, and mixtures thereof.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 8, wherein the mechanically milled oxide represented by Formula 1 is coated on a surface of the additional material.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 9, wherein the additional material comprises a transition element alloy comprising an A-B alloy, wherein A is a transition element, and B is selected from the group consisting of transition elements, alkali metals, alkaline earth metals, aluminum, gallium, indium, carbon, silicon, germanium, tin, antimony, selenium, tellurium, and combinations thereof, wherein when B is a transition element, B and A are not the same transition element.
Electrolyte formulations for wide temperature lithium ion batteries
A non-aqueous rechargeable electrochemical cell includes an electrolyte composition produced through the dissolution of a thermally stable lithium salt in a lactone solvent.
The resulting cell has stable performance in a wide temperature range between -40.degree.
C. and 80.degree.
C. The resulting cell operates across this wide temperature range with a commercially acceptable capacity retention, power loss characteristics, and safety characteristics across this temperature range.
A non-aqueous rechargeable electrochemical cell comprising: a positive electrode; a negative electrode; a separator interposed between said positive electrode and said negative electrode; and a non-aqueous electrolyte in simultaneous contact with said positive electrode, said negative electrode and said separator, said electrolyte consisting essentially of: a lithium salt of bis(oxalato)borate (LiBOB) dissolved in an at least 50 weight percent gamma-butyrolactone and an at least 5 weight percent but less than 50 weight percent of a non-aqueous lactone solvent selected from the group consisting of: beta-propiolactone, beta-butyrolactone, alpha-methyl-gamma-butyrolactone, gamma-valerolactone, delta-valerolactone, gamma-caprolactone, epsilon-caprolactone, gamma-octanolactone, gamma-nanolactone, gamma-decanolactone, delta-decanolactone, gamma-undecanolactone, delta-undecanolactone, and delta-dodecanolactone, whose structure can be represented by the general formula: ##STR00003## where R.sup.1-R.sup.6 are independently in each occurrence a hydrogen radical; an aliphatic moiety containing 1 to 5 carbon atoms, or an aromatic moiety containing 6 to 24 carbon atoms; n is an integer between 0 and 4 inclusive with the proviso when all R.sup.1-R.sup.6 are hydrogen radicals, n is not 1 and a second solvent component limited to 5 to 45 weight percent of the compounds selected from any other lactone solvents each weight less the weight of said lithium salt.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said positive electrode is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of a phosphate of an olivine structure with the formula of LiMPO.sub.4 where M is at least one of Co, Ni, Fe, and Mn, or a layered or spinel structured mixed metal oxide of the formula Li.sub.1-x(M.sup.1.sub.yM.sup.2.sub.zM.sup.3.sub.1-y-z)O.sub.2 (0.ltoreq.x<1, 0.ltoreq.y,z<1) where M.sup.1, M.sup.2, and M.sup.3 are each independently one of Co, Ni, Fe, and Mn, or metal oxides.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said negative electrode includes intercalation materials, alkaline or non-alkaline metal or metal alloys, all of which operate within 0 to 2.0 V to that of metallic lithium.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said separator is a polymer that can form a gel with said electrolyte, or porous polymer whose porosity can be impregnated with the said electrolyte.
The cell of claim 1 wherein said cell has a capacity retention at 40.degree.
C. more than 50% and after 100 cycles at 60.degree.
C. more than 90% relative to said cell operation at 25.degree.
C. 6.
The cell of claim 5 wherein said cell has a capacity retention at -40.degree.
C. more than 50% and after 100 cycles at 60.degree.
C. more than 90% relative to said cell operation at 25.degree.
C. 7.
The cell of claim 5 wherein said cell has a capacity retention at -40.degree.
C. more than 50% and after 100 cycles at 60.degree.
C. more than 90% relative to said cell operation at 25.degree.
C. 8.
A non-aqueous rechargeable electrochemical cell according to claim 1 further comprising a non-aqueous electrolyte in simultaneous contact with said positive electrode, said negative electrode and said separator, said electrolyte comprising a lactone having a four to eight membered ring to yield a capacity retention at -40.degree.
C. more than 50% and after 100 cycles at 60.degree.
C. more than 90% relative to said cell operation at 25.degree.
C. 9.
The cell of claim 8 wherein said electrolyte further comprises lithium difluoro(oxalato)borate.
The cell of claim 8 wherein said electrolyte further comprises a lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of: lithium bis(trifluoromethane sulfonyl)imide, lithium trifluoromethane sulfonate, lithium tetrafluoroborate, lithium bis(oxalato)borate, and lithium tris(oxalato)phosphate.
The cell of claim 8 wherein said non-aqueous electrolyte solvent further comprises a cyclic carbonate.
The cell of claim 8 wherein said non-aqueous electrolyte solvent further comprises an acyclic carbonate.
The cell of claim 8 wherein said non-aqueous electrolyte solvent further comprises an acyclic mono-ester.
The cell of claim 8 wherein said non-aqueous electrolyte solvent further comprises: a cyclic carbonate present from 5 to 95 weight percent of said electrolyte less said lithium salt; an acyclic carbonate present from 20 to 80 weight percent of said electrolyte less said lithium salt; an acyclic mono-ester present from 20 to 80 weight percent of said electrolyte less said lithium salt; wherein said solvent of Formula I is present at greater than or equal to 5 weight percent of said electrolyte less said lithium salt.
The cell of claim 8 wherein said lactone is selected from the group consisting of: beta-propiolactone, beta-butyrolactone, alpha-methyl-gamma-butyrolactone, gamma-butyrolactone, gamma-valerolactone, delta-valerolactone, gamma-caprolactone, epsilon-caprolactone, gamma-octanolactone, gamma-nanolactone, gamma-decanolactone, delta-decanolactone, gamma-undecanolactone, delta-undecanolactone, and delta-dodecanolactone.
Thin film lithium-based batteries and electrochromic devices fabricated  with nanocomposite electrode materials
Thin-film lithium-based batteries and electrochromic devices (10) are fabricated with positive electrodes (12) comprising a nanocomposite material composed of lithiated metal oxide nanoparticles (40) dispersed in a matrix composed of lithium tungsten oxide.
An electrochromic cell, comprising: a negative electrode comprising a cathodic electrochromic material that darkens upon electrochemical reduction; a positive electrode comprising a nanocomposite material that includes two constituent components, one of the constituent components being an amorphous, solid state matrix of lithium-based superionic conductor comprising lithium-tungsten-oxide (Li--W--O), wherein the lithium-tungsten-oxide (Li--W--O) consists of at least one of stoichiometric Li.sub.2WO.sub.4 stoichiometric Li.sub.2W.sub.4O.sub.13or both, and the second of which constituent components includes anodic nanoparticles of polycrystalline, lithiated, metal oxide dispersed in and surrounded by the amorphous, solid state matrix of lithium-based superionic conductor, where the metal in the anodic nanoparticles of polycrystalline, lithiated, metal oxide includes at least one of Ni, Mn, Co, Fe, and V; and a lithium ion electrolyte sandwiched between the negative electrode and the positive electrode.
The electrochromic cell of claim 1, wherein the second of the constituent components of the positive electrode also includes anodic nanoparticles of non-lithiated metal oxide dispersed in and surrounded by the amorphous, solid state matrix of lithium-based superionic conductor, where the metal in the anodic nanoparticles of polycrystalline, non-lithiated, metal oxide includes at least one of Ni, Mn, Co, Fe, and V. 3.
The electrochromic cell of claim 1, wherein the lithium-tungsten-oxide includes a mixture consisting of stoichiometric Li.sub.2WO.sub.4 and stoichiometric Li.sub.2W.sub.4O.sub.13.
The electrochromic cell of claim 1, wherein the lithium-based, amorphous, solid state superionic conductor also comprises Li.sub.2O.
The electrochromic cell of claim 2, wherein the anodic nanoparticles of polycrystalline, lithiated, metal oxide are less than 100 nm in diameter.
The electrochromic cell of claim 2, wherein the anodic nanoparticles of polycrystalline, lithiated, metal oxide are less than 35 nm in diameter.
The electrochromic cell of claim 5, wherein the anodic nanoparticles of polycrystalline, lithiated, metal oxide include anodic nanoparticles of polycrystalline LixNi1-xO where 0<x<0.5.
The electrochromic cell of claim 1, wherein an external circuit with an electric power source is connected between the negative and positive electrodes to drive electrons into the cathodic material and cause reduction of the cathodic material.
Conductive graphene polymer binder for electrochemical cell electrodes
The present invention provides an electrically conductive electrode comprising particles of an electroactive material and a conductive graphene polymer binder that bonds multiple particles of the electroactive material together, wherein the binder is in an amount of from 0.01% to 90% by weight based on the total electrode weight.
Also provided are (a) a precursor solution or suspension to the graphene polymer binder for the electrode; (b) a paste containing electroactive particles and a graphene polymer dispersed in a liquid; (c) a method of producing the electrode from the precursor paste; and (d) an electrochemical cell (a battery or supercapacitor) containing such an electrode.
An electrically conductive electrode for an electrochemical cell, said electrode comprising particles of an electroactive material and a conductive graphene polymer binder that bonds multiple particles of the electro-active material together to form said electrode, wherein said binder is obtained by mixing graphene sheets in a selected liquid medium at a temperature for a desired period of time to become a graphene polymer solution or suspension, mixing the electro-active material with the solution or suspension, and removing the liquid medium such that the graphene polymer bonds the particles of electro-active material, said binder is present in an amount of from 0.01% to 90% by weight based on the total electrode weight and wherein said electrode is an electrode of a metal-air battery, lithium metal battery, lithium-air battery, non-lithium alkali battery, alkaline battery supercapacitor, or a cathode of a lithium-ion battery.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein the binder amount is from 0.5% to 50% by weight of the total electrode weight.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein the binder amount is from 1% to 15% by weight of the total electrode weight.
The electrode of claim 1, further comprising a conductive filler in the amount of from 1% to 15% by weight of the total electrode weight.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has a length or width in the range of 10 nm to 10 .mu.m.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has a length or width in the range of 100 nm to 1 .mu.m.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has an electrical conductivity greater than 10.sup.-5 S/cm when measured in a thin film form with a thickness less than 1 .mu.m.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has an electrical conductivity greater than 1 S/cm when measured in a thin film form with a thickness less than 1 .mu.m.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has an electrical conductivity greater than 10 S/cm and/or thermal conductivity greater than 10 W/mK when measured in a thin film form with a thickness less than 1 .mu.m.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has an electrical conductivity greater than 100 S/cm and/or thermal conductivity greater than 100 W/mK when measured in a thin film form with a thickness less than 1 .mu.m.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has an electrical conductivity greater than 500 S/cm and/or thermal conductivity greater than 200 W/mK when measured in a thin film form with a thickness less than 1 .mu.m.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has a thermal conductivity greater than 300 W/mK when measured in a thin film form with a thickness less than 1 .mu.m.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said electrode is a lithium-ion or lithium metal battery cathode having an electrical conductivity greater than 10.sup.-6 S/cm when measured in a dry electrode state without electrolyte.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said electrode is a cathode of a lithium-ion or lithium metal cell, said cathode having an electrical conductivity greater than 10.sup.-3 S/cm when measured in a dry electrode state without electrolyte.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said electrode is a cathode of a lithium-ion or lithium metal cell having an electrical conductivity greater than 1 S/cm when measured in a dry electrode state without electrolyte.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has an oxygen content less than 25% by weight.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has an oxygen content less than 5% by weight.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said graphene polymer has a chemical functional group attached to an edge or surface of the graphene polymer.
The electrode of claim 1 which electrode is produced by (a) preparing a precursor solution or suspension wherein said graphene polymer is dissolved or dispersed in a liquid medium; (b) mixing multiple particles of the electro-active material in said precursor solution or suspension to form a slurry or paste; (c) applying a coating of said slurry or paste onto a current collector; and (d) removing said liquid medium from said coating to form said electrode.
A lithium metal battery, lithium-ion battery, or lithium-air battery containing the electrode of claim 1.
A supercapacitor containing the electrode of claim 1.
An electrically conductive electrode for an electrochemical cell, said electrode comprising particles of an electroactive material and a conductive graphene polymer binder that bonds multiple particles of the electro-active material together to form said electrode, wherein said binder is obtained by mixing graphene sheets, in a selected liquid medium at a temperature for a desired period of time to become a graphene polymer solution or suspension, mixing the electro-active material with the solution or suspension, and removing the liquid medium such that the graphene polymer bonds the particles of electro-active material, and said binder is present in an amount of from 0.01% to 90% by weight based on the total electrode weight, wherein said graphene polymer has an oxygen content in the range of 2.8% to 34% by weight.
An electrically conductive electrode for an electrochemical cell, said electrode comprising particles of an electroactive material and a conductive graphene polymer binder that bonds multiple particles of the electro-active material together to form said electrode, wherein said binder is obtained by mixing graphene sheets, in a selected liquid medium at a temperature for a desired period of time to become a graphene polymer solution or suspension, mixing the electro-active material with the solution or suspension, and removing the liquid medium such that the graphene polymer bonds the particles of electro-active material, said binder is present in an amount of from 0.01% to 90% by weight based on the total electrode weight, wherein said graphene polymer has a chemical functional group attached to an edge or surface of the graphene polymer and wherein said chemical functional group is selected from the group consisting of alkyl or aryl silane, alkyl or aralkyl group, carboxyl group, amine group, sulfonate group (--SO.sub.3H), aldehydic group, quinoidal, fluorocarbon, and combinations thereof.
Cathode compositions for lithium-ion batteries
A lithium-ion battery has (a) an anode; (b) a cathode having a cathode composition of the formula Li[M.sup.4.sub.yM.sup.5.sub.1-2yMn.sub.y]O.sub.2, wherein 0.083<y<0.5 with the proviso that M.sup.4 and M.sup.5 do not include chromium, and wherein M.sup.4 is Co and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Li and Ni; and (c) an electrolyte.
A lithium-ion battery comprising: an anode; a cathode having a cathode composition of the formula Li[M.sup.4.sub.yM.sup.5.sub.1-2yMn.sub.y]O.sub.2, wherein 0.083<y<0.5 with the proviso that M.sup.4 and M.sup.5 do not include chromium, and wherein M.sup.4 is Co and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Li and Ni; and an electrolyte.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.5 further comprises Co, Fe, Cu, Zn, V, or combinations thereof.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein 0.167<y<0.5.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein the composition has a c-axis lattice constant of about 14.17 to about 14.28.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.4 is Co and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Li and Ni, and wherein the composition has a c-axis lattice constant of about 14.20 to about 14.27.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein M.sup.4 is Co and M.sup.5 includes the combination of Li and Ni, and wherein the composition has a c-axis lattice constant of about 14.24 to about 14.26.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein the composition has a reversible capacity of at least about 200 mAh/g.
A lithium-ion battery according to claim 1 wherein the composition has an onset temperature above 185.degree.
C. as analyzed by differential scanning calorimetry.
Battery having electrolyte with mixed solvent
The battery includes an electrolyte activating one or more cathodes and one or more anodes.
The electrolyte includes one or more salts in a solvent.
The solvent includes one or more organic solvents and one or more silanes and/or one or more siloxanes.
A battery, comprising: an electrolyte activating one or more anodes and one or more cathodes, the electrolyte including one or more salts in a solvent that includes one or more or more organic solvents and one or more components selected from a group consisting of siloxanes and silanes, a volume ratio of the one or more organic solvents: the one or more components being greater than 1:4 in the electrolyte, and at least one of the anodes including one or more anode components selected from a group consisting of lithium metal, a lithium metal alloy or a lithium metal intermetallic compound.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the solvent includes a siloxane and a silane.
The battery of claim 1, wherein at least one of the anodes includes lithium metal.
The battery of claim 1, wherein at least one of the anodes consists of lithium metal.
The battery of claim 1, wherein at least one of the anodes includes a lithium metal alloy.
The battery of claim 1, wherein at least one of the anodes includes a lithium metal intermetallic compound.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte includes a mixture of salts.
The battery of claim 7, wherein the electrolyte includes an organoborate salt.
The battery of claim 8, wherein the one or more salts include a non-organoborate salt in addition to the organoborate salt.
The battery of claim 9, wherein the organoborate salt includes a mono[bidentate]borate salt.
The battery of claim 9, wherein the organoborate salt includes a dihalo mono[bidentate]borate.
The battery of claim 9, wherein the organoborate salt includes a lithium dihalo mono[bidentate]borate.
The battery of claim 9, wherein the organoborate salt includes lithium difluoro oxalatoborate (LiDfOB).
The battery of claim 9, wherein the organoborate salt is represented by ##STR00060## wherein M.sup.+ is a metal ion selected from the Group I or Group II elements; Y.sub.3 is selected from the group consisting of --CX(CR.sub.2).sub.aCX--, --CZZ'(CR.sub.2).sub.aCZZ'--, --CX(CR.sub.2).sub.aCZZ'--, --SO.sub.2(CR.sub.2).sub.bSO.sub.2--, and --CO(CR.sub.2).sub.bSO.sub.2--; X is .dbd.O or .dbd.NR', Z is alkyl, halogenated alkyl, --C.dbd.NR', CR'.sub.3 or R'; Z' is alkyl, halogenated alkyl, --C.dbd.NR % CR'.sub.3 or R'; R'' is a halogen; R' is halogen or hydrogen; R is hydrogen, alkyl, halogenated alkyl, cyano, or halogen; a is 0 to 4; and b is 1 to 4.
The battery of claim 9, wherein the organoborate salt includes a bis[bidentate]borate.
The battery of claim 9, wherein the organoborate salt is represented by ##STR00061## wherein M.sup.+ is a metal ion selected from the Group I or Group II elements; Y.sub.1 and Y.sub.2 are each selected from the group consisting of --CX(CR.sub.2).sub.aCX--, --CZZ'(CR.sub.2).sub.aCZZ'--, --CX(CR.sub.2).sub.aCZZ'--, --SO.sub.2(CR.sub.2% SO.sub.2--, and --CO(CR.sub.2).sub.bSO.sub.2--; X is O or NR', Z is alkyl, halogenated alkyl, --C.dbd.NR', CR'.sub.3 or R; Z' is alkyl, halogenated alkyl, CR'.sub.3 or R'; R' is halogen or hydrogen; R is hydrogen, alkyl, halogenated alkyl, cyano, or halogen; a is 0 to 4 and b is 1 to 4.
The battery of claim 13, wherein the non-organoborate salt is selected from a group consisting of LiClO.sub.4, LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6, LiPF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiCF.sub.3SO.sub.3, LiC.sub.6F.sub.5SO.sub.3, LiC(CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.3, LiN(SO.sub.2C.sub.2F.sub.5).sub.2, LiN(SO.sub.2CF.sub.3).sub.2, LiAlCl.sub.4, LiGaCl.sub.4, LiSCN, LiO.sub.2, LiO.sub.3SCF.sub.3, LiO.sub.2CCF.sub.3, LiSO.sub.6F, LiB(C.sub.6H.sub.5).sub.4, Li-methide, Li-imide and lithium alkyl fluorophosphates.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte includes one or more silanes.
The battery of claim 18, wherein at least one silane includes a silicon linked to one or more substituents that each include a poly(alkylene oxide) moiety or a cyclic carbonate moiety.
The battery of claim 18, wherein at least one silane is represented by Si.sub.4-x-yR'.sub.xR''.sub.y; wherein R is an alkyl group, an aryl group or a halogen, R'.sub.x is represented by Formula VIII-A or Formula VIII-C, R''.sub.y is represented by Formula VIII-B, x is 0 to 4, y is 0 to 4,4-x-y indicates the number of R substituents, and x+y is at least 1; Formula VIII-A: ##STR00062## wherein R.sub.9 is nil or an organic spacer, R.sub.10 is hydrogen; alkyl or aryl; R.sub.11 is alkyl or aryl; and n is 1 to 15; Formula VIII-B ##STR00063## wherein R.sub.12 is an organic spacer and p is 1 to 2; and Formula VIII-C ##STR00064## where R.sub.14 is nil or a spacer; R.sub.15 is nil or a spacer; R.sub.16 is hydrogen, alkyl or aryl; second silane represents another silane and n is 1 to 15.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte includes one or more disiloxanes.
The battery of claim 21, wherein at least one disiloxane includes a backbone with a silicon linked to one or more substituents that each include a poly(alkylene oxide) moiety or a cyclic carbonate moiety.
The battery of claim 21, wherein at least one disiloxane is represented by: ##STR00065## wherein R.sub.1 is an alkyl group or an aryl group; R.sub.2 is an alkyl group or an aryl group; R.sub.3 is an alkyl group or an aryl group; R.sub.4 is an alkyl group or an aryl group; R.sub.5 is represented by Formula VII-A, Formula VII-B or Formula VII-C; R.sub.6 is an alkyl group, an aryl group, represented by Formula VII-D, or represented by Formula VII-E; Formula VII-A: ##STR00066## wherein R.sub.9 is nil or a spacer; R.sub.10 is hydrogen; alkyl or aryl; R.sub.11 is alkyl or aryl; and n is 1 to 12; Formula II-B: ##STR00067## wherein R.sub.12 is an organic spacer and p is 1 to 2; Formula VII-C: ##STR00068## where R.sub.14 is nil or a spacer, R.sub.15 is nil or a spacer; R.sub.16 is hydrogen, alkyl or aryl; second siloxane represents another siloxane and n is 1 to 12; Formula VII-D: ##STR00069## wherein R.sub.17 is nil or a spacer; R.sub.18 is hydrogen; alkyl or aryl; R.sub.19 is alkyl or aryl; and q is 1 to 12; and Formula VII-E: ##STR00070## wherein R.sub.20 is an organic spacer and p is 1 to 2.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte includes one or more trisiloxanes.
The battery of claim 24, wherein at least one trisiloxane includes a backbone with three silicons, one or more of the silicons being linked to one or more substituents that each include a poly(alkylene oxide) moiety or a cyclic carbonate moiety.
The battery of claim 24, wherein at least one trisiloxane is represented by: ##STR00071## wherein R.sub.1 is an alkyl group; R.sub.2 is an alkyl group; R.sub.3 is an alkyl group or an aryl group; R.sub.4 is an alkyl group or an aryl group; R.sub.5 is an alkyl group or an aryl group; R.sub.6 is an alkyl group or an aryl group; R.sub.7 is represented by Formula V-A or Formula V-B; R.sub.8 is represented by Formula V-C or Formula V-D; Formula V-A: ##STR00072## wherein R.sub.9 is nil or a spacer, R.sub.10 is hydrogen; alkyl or aryl; R.sub.11 is alkyl or aryl; and n is 1 to 12; Formula V-B: ##STR00073## wherein R.sub.12 is an organic spacer and p is 1 to 2; Formula V-C: ##STR00074## wherein R.sub.13 is nil or a spacer; R.sub.14 is hydrogen; alkyl or aryl; R.sub.15 is alkyl or aryl; and q is 1 to 12; and Formula V-D: ##STR00075## wherein R.sub.16 is an organic spacer and p is 1 to 2.
The battery of claim 24, wherein at least one trisiloxane is represented by: ##STR00076## wherein R.sub.19 is an alkyl group or an aryl group; R.sub.20 is represented by Formula VI-A, Formula VI-B or Formula VI-C; Formula VI-A: ##STR00077## wherein R.sub.21 is an organic spacer and p is 1 to 2; Formula VI-B: ##STR00078## wherein R.sub.23 is hydrogen; alkyl or aryl; R.sub.24 is alkyl or aryl; and r is 1 to 12; and Formula VI-C: ##STR00079## where R.sub.25 is nil or a spacer; R.sub.26 is nil or a spacer; R.sub.27 is hydrogen, alkyl or aryl; second siloxane represents another siloxane and n is 1 to 12.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte includes one or more tetrasiloxanes.
The battery of claim 28, wherein at least one tetrasiloxane includes a backbone with four silicons, one or more of the silicons being linked to one or more substituents that each include a poly(alkylene oxide) moiety or a cyclic carbonate moiety.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte includes one or more polysiloxanes.
The battery of claim 30, wherein at least one polysiloxane includes a backbone with five or more silicons, one or more of the silicons being linked to one or more substituents that each include a poly(alkylene oxide) moiety or a cyclic carbonate moiety.
The battery of claim 20, wherein the solvent includes a siloxane in addition to the at least one silane represented by SiR.sub.4-x-yR'.sub.xR''.sub.y.
The battery of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more organic solvents is selected from a group consisting of cyclic carbonates, linear carbonates, dialkyl carbonates, aliphatic carboxylate esters, linear ethers, cyclic ethers, and fluorinated carboxylate esters.
The battery of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more organic solvents is selected from a group consisting of propylene carbonate (PC), ethylene carbonate (EC), butylene carbonate (BC), vinylene carbonate (VC), dimethyl carbonate (DMC), diethyl carbonate (DEC), ethylmethyl carbonate (EMC) and dipropyl carbonate (DPC), diglyme, trigylme, tetragylme, 1,2-dimethoxyethane (DME).
The battery of claim 1, wherein the total volume of the one or more components selected from the group consisting of siloxanes and silanes is less than 50% of the solvent volume.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the volume ratio is also less that than 2:4.
The battery of claim 1, wherein the volume ratio is such that the presence of the one more or more organic solvents in the electrolyte reduces the viscosity of the one or more components in the electrolyte.
A method of forming a battery comprising: generating an electrolyte having one or more salts in a solvent that includes an organic solvent and one or more components selected from a group consisting of siloxanes and silanes, a volume ratio of the one or more organic solvents: the one or more components being greater than 1:4 in the electrolyte, and activating one or more anodes and one or more cathodes with the electrolyte, at least one of the anodes including one or more anode components selected from a group consisting of lithium metal, a lithium metal alloy and a lithium metal intermetallic compound.
Electrolyte suitable for use in a lithium ion cell or battery
Electrolyte suitable for use in a lithium ion cell or battery.
According to one embodiment, the electrolyte includes a fluorinated lithium ion salt and a solvent system that solvates lithium ions and that yields a high dielectric constant, a low viscosity and a high flashpoint.
In one embodiment, the solvent system includes a mixture of an aprotic lithium ion solvating solvent and an aprotic fluorinated solvent.
A liquid electrolyte suitable for use in a lithium ion cell or battery, said liquid electrolyte comprising: (a) a lithium salt; and (b) a solvent system, said solvent system comprising (i) a first aprotic solvent, said first aprotic solvent being a lithium ion solvating solvent; and (ii) a second aprotic solvent, said second aprotic solvent being a fluorinated solvent, wherein said second aprotic solvent is at least a partially fluorinated ring structure containing and opposite to an --S(O).sub.n group, wherein n=1 and wherein the S atom of said --S(O).sub.n group is a member of said partially fluorinated ring structure.
The liquid electrolyte as claimed in claim 1 wherein said lithium salt is a fluorinated lithium salt.
The liquid electrolyte as claimed in claim 2 wherein said fluorinated lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of LiBF.sub.4, LiAsF.sub.6 and LiPF.sub.6.
The liquid electrolyte as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first aprotic solvent is selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate, propylene carbonate, and butylene carbonate.
The liquid electrolyte as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second aprotic solvent is a fluorinated solvent having a molecular dipole moment in excess of 4 Debye.
The liquid electrolyte as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second aprotic solvent constitutes about 20-60% of said solvent system.
The liquid electrolyte as claimed in claim 1 wherein said solvent system further comprises at least one fluorinated hydrocarbon liquid.
The liquid electrolyte as claimed in claim 7 wherein said fluorinated hydrocarbon liquid is selected from the group consisting of 2,3-dihydrodecafluoropentane; 1,1,1-trifluoropentanedione; trifluoroethyl acetate; and 1,2-hexafluoropentane-3,4-dione.
An electrochemical cell comprising the liquid electrolyte of claim 1, an anode, a cathode and a separator, the anode, the cathode and the separator being operatively associated with the liquid electrolyte, wherein the electrochemical cell is a lithium ion cell or battery.
A liquid electrolyte suitable for use in a lithium ion cell or battery, said liquid electrolyte comprising: (a) a lithium salt; and (b) a solvent system, said solvent system comprising (i) first aprotic solvent, said first aprotic solvent being a lithium ion solvating solvent; and (ii) a second aprotic solvent, said second aprotic solvent being a fluorinated solvent, wherein said second aprotic solvent is a compound of the general formula ##STR00008## wherein n=1; R.sub.1.dbd.H or F; R.sub.2.dbd.H or F; R.sub.3.dbd.H or F; and R.sub.4.dbd.H or F, with at least one of R.sub.1, R.sub.2, R.sub.3 and R.sub.4 being F. 11.
The liquid electrolyte as claimed in claim 10 wherein at least one of R.sub.2 and R.sub.3 is F.
Lithium-ion cell having a high energy density and high power density
A lithium-ion cell comprising: (A) a cathode comprising graphene as the cathode active material having a surface area to capture and store lithium thereon and wherein said graphene cathode is meso-porous having a specific surface area greater than 100 m.sup.2/g; (B) an anode comprising an anode active material for inserting and extracting lithium, wherein the anode active material is mixed with a conductive additive and/or a resin binder to form a porous electrode structure, or coated onto a current collector in a coating or thin film form; (C) a porous separator disposed between the anode and the cathode; (D) a lithium-containing electrolyte in physical contact with the two electrodes; and (E) a lithium source disposed in at least one of the two electrodes when the cell is made.
This new Li-ion cell exhibits an unprecedentedly high energy density.
A lithium-ion cell comprising: (a) A positive electrode (cathode) comprising a carbon or graphitic material selected from graphite worms, exfoliated graphite flakes, expanded graphite, chemically treated graphite with an inter-graphene planar separation no less than 0.4 nm, chemically etched or expanded soft carbon, chemically etched or expanded hard carbon, exfoliated activated carbon, chemically etched or expanded carbon black, chemically expanded multi-walled carbon nano-tube having a diameter from 1 to 100 nm, chemically expanded carbon nano-fiber having a diameter from 1 to 100 nm, or a combination thereof as the only cathode active material having a surface area to capture and store lithium thereon and wherein said cathode forms a meso-porous structure having a pore size in the range from 2 nm to 50 nm and a specific surface area greater than 50 m.sup.2/g; (b) A negative electrode (anode) comprising an anode active material having a lithium-storing capacity no less than 400 mAh/g, wherein said anode active material consisting of an intercalation compound is mixed with a conductive additive and/or a resin binder to form a porous electrode structure, or coated onto a current collector in a coating or thin film form, and wherein said anode active material is not pre-lithiated and is lithium-free when the cell is made; (c) A porous separator disposed between the anode and the cathode; (d) A lithium-containing electrolyte in ionic contact with the anode and the cathode; and (e) A lithium source disposed in at least one of the two electrodes when the cell is made.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1 wherein said anode active material is silicon, germanium, tin, or tin oxide.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1 wherein said cathode has a specific surface area greater than 100 m.sup.2/g.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1 wherein said cathode has a specific surface area greater than 1,000 m.sup.2/g.
The lithium-ion of claim 1 wherein said cathode further contains a conductive filler selected from graphite or carbon particles, carbon black, expanded graphite particles, carbon nanotube having a diameter from 1 to 100 nm, carbon nano-fiber having a diameter from 1 to 100 nm, carbon fiber, conductive polymer, or a combination thereof.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1, wherein the lithium source comprises a lithium chip, lithium alloy chip, lithium foil, lithium alloy foil, lithium powder, lithium alloy powder, surface stabilized lithium particles, a mixture of lithium metal or lithium alloy with a lithium intercalation compound, lithium or lithium alloy film coated on a surface of an anode or cathode active material, or a combination thereof.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1 wherein said anode active material contains a mixture of a high capacity anode material and a high rate capable anode material, wherein said high rate capable anode material is selected from nano-scaled particles or filaments of a transition metal oxide, Co.sub.3O.sub.4, Mn.sub.3O.sub.4, Fe.sub.3O.sub.4, or a combination thereof, wherein nano-scaled particles or filaments have a diameter or thickness from 0.1 nm to 100 nm, and said high capacity anode material is selected from Si, Ge, Sn, SnO, or a combination thereof.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1, wherein the anode active material is selected from the group consisting of: (a) Non-lithiated silicon (Si), germanium (Ge), tin (Sn), and mixtures thereof; (b) Non-lithiated alloys or intermetallic compounds of Si, Ge, Sn, and their mixtures; (c) Non-lithiated oxides, carbides, nitrides, sulfides, phosphides, selenides, tellurides, or antimonides of Si, Ge, Sn, Sb, Bi, Al, Fe, Ti, Co, Ni, Mn, Cd, and mixtures or composites thereof; and (d) Non-lithiated salts or hydroxides of Sn.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1 wherein said anode active material contains a nano material having a thickness or diameter less than 100 nm.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1, wherein the anode active material is a nano particle, nano disc, nano platelete, nano wire, nano-rod, nano belt, nano scroll, nano tube, nano filament, nano coating, or nano film, having a diameter or thickness from 0.1 nm to 100 nm, selected from the group consisting of: (a) Non-lithiated silicon (Si), germanium (Ge), tin (Sn), and mixtures thereof; (b) Non-lithiated alloys or intermetallic compounds of Si, Ge, Sn, and their mixtures; (c) Non-lithiated oxides, carbides, nitrides, sulfides, phosphides, selenides, tellurides, or antimonides of Si, Ge, Sn, Sb, Bi, Al, Fe, Ti, Co, Ni, Mn, Cd, and mixtures or composites thereof; and (d) Non-lithiated salts or hydroxides of Sn.
A lithium-ion cell comprising: (A) A positive electrode (cathode) comprising a carbon or graphitic material selected from graphite worms, exfoliated graphite flakes, expanded graphite, chemically treated graphite with an inter-graphene planar separation no less than 0.4 nm, chemically etched or expanded soft carbon, chemically etched or expanded hard carbon, exfoliated activated carbon, chemically etched or expanded carbon black, chemically expanded multi-walled carbon nano-tube having a diameter from 1 to 100 nm, chemically expanded carbon nano-fiber having a diameter from 1 to 100 nm, or a combination thereof as the only cathode active material having a surface area to capture and store lithium thereon and wherein said cathode forms a meso-porous structure having a pore size in the range from 2 nm to 50 nm and having a specific surface area greater than 50 m.sup.2/g; (B) A negative electrode (anode) comprising an anode active material for inserting and extracting lithium during a charge and discharge of said cell, wherein the anode active material is a nano particle, nano disc, nano platelet, nano wire, nano-rod, nano belt, nano scroll, nano tube, nano filament, nano coating, or nano film, having a diameter or thickness from 0.1 to 100 nm, selected from: (a) a pre-lithiated silicon (Si), germanium (Ge), tin (Sn), lead (Pb), antimony (Sb), bismuth (Bi), zinc (Zn), aluminum (Al), titanium (Ti), cobalt (Co), nickel (Ni), manganese (Mn), cadmium (Cd), or a mixture thereof; (b) a pre-lithiated alloy or intermetallic compound of Si, Ge, Sn, Pb, Sb, Bi, Zn, Al, Ti, Co, Ni, Mn, Cd, or a mixture thereof; (c) a pre-lithiated oxide, carbide, nitride, sulfide, phosphide, selenide, telluride, or antimonide of Si, Ge, Sn, Pb, Sb, Bi; Zn, Al, Fe, Ti, Co, Ni, Mn, Cd, or a mixture or composite thereof, (d) a pre-lithiated salt or hydroxide of Sn; or (e) a pre-lithiated carbon or graphite material, and wherein said anode active material is electrically connected directly to an anode current collector or is connected to an anode current collector through a binder and/or a conductive additive; (C) A porous separator disposed between the anode and the cathode; and (D) A lithium-containing electrolyte in physical contact with the anode and the cathode.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 11 wherein said anode active material contains a mixture of a high capacity anode material and a high rate capable anode material, wherein said high rate capable anode material is selected from nano-scaled particles or filaments, having a diameter or thickness from 0.1 to 100 nm, of a lithium transition metal oxide, lithiated Co.sub.3O.sub.4, lithiated Mn.sub.3O.sub.4, lithiated Fe.sub.3O.sub.4, Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12, or a combination thereof, and said high capacity anode material is selected from pre-lithiated Si, Ge, Sn, SnO, or a combination thereof.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 11, wherein said anode active material is prelithiated to a specific capacity of no less than 500 mAh/g based on the anode active material weight.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 11, wherein said anode active material is prelithiated to a specific capacity of no less than 1000 mAh/g based on the anode active material weight.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 11, wherein said anode active material is prelithiated to a specific capacity of no less than 2,000 mAh/g based on the anode active material weight.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 11, wherein said anode active material is prelithiated to a specific capacity of no less than 3,000 mAh/g based on the anode active material weight.
A lithium-ion cell comprising: (a) A positive electrode (cathode) comprising a carbon or graphitic material selected from graphite worms, exfoliated graphite flakes, expanded graphite, chemically treated graphite with an inter-graphene planar separation no less than 0.4 nm, chemically etched or expanded soft carbon, chemically etched or expanded hard carbon, exfoliated activated carbon, chemically etched or expanded carbon black, chemically expanded multi-walled carbon nano-tube having a diameter from 1 to 100 nm, chemically expanded carbon nano-fiber having a diameter from 1 to 100 nm, or a combination thereof, as the only cathode active material having a surface area to capture and store lithium thereon and wherein said cathode forms a meso-porous structure having a pore in the range of 2 nm to 50 nm and having a specific surface area greater than 50 m.sup.2/g; (b) A negative electrode (anode) comprising an anode active material for inserting and extracting lithium during a charge and discharge of said cell, wherein said anode active material is selected from: (a) a pre-lithiated silicon (Si), germanium (Ge), tin (Sn), lead (Pb), antimony (Sb), bismuth (Bi), zinc (Zn), aluminum (Al), titanium (Ti), cobalt (Co), nickel (Ni), manganese (Mn), cadmium (Cd), or a mixture thereof; (b) a pre-lithiated alloy or intermetallic compound of Si, Ge, Sn, Pb, Sb, Bi, Zn, Al, Ti, Co, Ni, Mn, Cd,or a mixture thereof; (c) a pre-lithiated oxide, carbide, nitride, sulfide, phosphide, selenide, telluride, or antimonide of Si, Ge, Sn, Pb, Sb, Bi, Zn, Al, Fe, Co, Ni, Mn, Cd, or a mixture or composite thereof, or (d) a pre-lithiated salt or hydroxide of Sn; and said anode active material is mixed with a conductive filler and a binder to form a porous electrode; (c) A porous separator disposed between the anode and the cathode; and (d) A lithium-containing electrolyte in physical contact with the two electrodes.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 17, further containing a lithium source disposed in at least one of the two electrodes when the cell is made, wherein said lithium source comprises a lithium chip, lithium alloy chip, lithium foil, lithium alloy foil, lithium powder, lithium alloy powder, surface stabilized lithium particles, a mixture of lithium metal or lithium alloy with a lithium intercalation compound, lithium or lithium alloy film coated on a surface of an anode or cathode active material, or a combination thereof.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1, further comprising an anode current collector and/or cathode current collector that is a porous, electrically conductive material selected from metal foam, metal web or screen, perforated metal sheet, metal fiber mat, metal nanowire mat, porous conductive polymer film, conductive polymer nano-fiber mat or paper, conductive polymer foam, carbon foam, carbon aerogel, carbon xerox gel, graphene foam, graphene oxide foam, reduced graphene oxide foam, carbon fiber paper, graphene paper, graphene oxide paper, reduced graphene oxide paper, carbon nano-fiber paper, carbon nano-tube paper, or a combination thereof, wherein said nanowire, nano-fiber, or nano-tube has a diameter or thickness from 1 to 100 nm.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 11, further comprising an anode current collector and/or cathode current collector that is a porous, electrically conductive material selected from metal foam, metal web or screen, perforated metal sheet, metal fiber mat, metal nanowire mat, porous conductive polymer film, conductive polymer nano-fiber mat or paper, conductive polymer foam, carbon foam, carbon aerogel, carbon xerox gel, graphene foam, graphene oxide foam, reduced graphene oxide foam, carbon fiber paper, graphene paper, graphene oxide paper, reduced graphene oxide paper, carbon nano-fiber paper, carbon nano-tube paper, or a combination thereof, wherein said nanowire, nano-fiber, or nano-tube has a diameter or thickness from 1 to 100 nm.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 17, further comprising an anode current collector and/or cathode current collector that is a porous, electrically conductive material selected from metal foam, metal web or screen, perforated'metal sheet, metal fiber mat, metal nanowire mat, porous conductive polymer film, conductive polymer nano-fiber mat or paper, conductive polymer foam, carbon foam, carbon aerogel, carbon xerox gel, graphene foam, graphene oxide foam, reduced graphene oxide foam, carbon fiber paper, graphene paper, graphene oxide paper, reduced graphene oxide paper, carbon nano-fiber paper, carbon nano-tube paper, or a combination thereof, wherein said nanowire, nano-fiber, or nano-tube has a diameter or thickness from 1 to 100 nm.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte is organic liquid electrolyte, ionic liquid electrolyte, gel electrolyte, polymer electrolyte, or solid electrolyte containing a first amount of lithium ions when said cell is made.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 11, wherein the electrolyte is organic liquid electrolyte, ionic liquid electrolyte, gel electrolyte, polymer electrolyte, or solid electrolyte containing a first amount of lithium ions when said cell is made.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 17, wherein the electrolyte is organic liquid electrolyte, ionic liquid electrolyte, gel electrolyte, polymer electrolyte, or solid electrolyte containing a first amount of lithium ions when said cell is made.
The lithium-ion cell of claim 1, wherein said anode, said cathode, or both contains less than 1% by weight oxygen.
Negative electrode for nonaqueous electrolyte solution battery and  nonaqueous electrolyte solution battery having the same
A negative electrode used for a nonaqueous electrolyte solution battery having nonaqueous electrolyte solution containing lithium ion includes a metal carbon composite material.
The metal carbon composite material has a porous carbon material having cavities, and a metal material made of metal to reversibly store or emit lithium ion.
The metal material is arranged on a surface of the porous carbon material including inner surfaces of the cavities.
The porous carbon material has a mass of 1-65 mass % when the metal carbon composite material is defined to have a mass of 100 mass %.
A negative electrode used for a nonaqueous electrolyte solution battery having nonaqueous electrolyte solution containing lithium ion, the negative electrode comprising: a metal carbon composite material including a porous carbon material and a metal material, the porous carbon material being made of carbon material having cavities, the metal material being made of metal to reversibly store or emit lithium ion, the metal material being arranged on a surface of the porous carbon material including inner surfaces of the cavities, wherein the porous carbon material has a concentration of 1-65 mass % when the metal carbon composite material is defined to have a mass of 100 mass %, the porous carbon material comprises a plurality of dendritic objects having a three-dimensional mesh structure, the porous carbon material has a first pore having a first diameter and a second pore having a second diameter larger than the first diameter of the first pore, the first pore is a pore defined on the dendritic object and the second pore is a cavity defined between the plurality of dendritic objects entangling with each other, the first diameter is smaller than or equal to 10 nm, the second diameter is in a range between 10 nm and 100 nm, the metal material is arranged on an inner surface of the first pore and an inner surface of the second pore, and the metal carbon composite material has a particle shape having a diameter in a range between 0.5 .mu.m and 100 .mu.m.
The negative electrode according to claim 1, wherein the metal material is made of at least a kind of metal selected from elements of Si, Ge, Sn, In, Sb, and Zn, an alloy containing at least a kind of metal selected from the elements, a metal oxide containing at least a kind of metal selected from the elements, or a compound containing at least one of the metal, the alloy and the metal oxide.
The negative electrode according to claim 1, wherein the metal material supported in the metal carbon composite material is made of at least a kind of metal selected from metal elements having melting point equal to or lower than 3500.degree.
C., an alloy containing at least a kind of metal selected from the metal elements, or a compound containing at least one of the metal and the alloy, and the metal or the alloy forms an alloy phase with lithium at a temperature equal to or lower than 1500.degree.
C. in a phase diagram.
The negative electrode according to claim 1, wherein the metal material supported in the metal carbon composite material is selected from Sn, Si, Ag--Sn alloy, Sn--Ag--Sb alloy, Cu--Sn alloy, Ag--Ge alloy, Cu--Ge alloy, Sn oxide and Si oxide.
The negative electrode according to claim 1, wherein the porous carbon material has a tap density equal to or lower than 0.2 g/cm.sup.3.
The negative electrode according to claim 1, wherein the porous carbon material has a pore volume equal to or larger than 1.5 cm.sup.3/g when the pore volume is measured by using a BJH method.
The negative electrode according to claim 1, wherein the porous carbon material has an average pore diameter equal to or smaller than 7 nm when the average pore diameter is measured by using a BJH method.
The negative electrode according to claim 1, wherein the nonaqueous electrolyte solution battery is a lithium ion battery.
A nonaqueous electrolyte solution battery comprising the negative electrode according to claim 1, a positive electrode and a nonaqueous electrolyte solution containing lithium ion.
Cathode materials for secondary (rechargeable) lithium batteries
The invention relates to materials for use as electrodes in an alkali-ion secondary (rechargeable) battery, particularly a lithium-ion battery.
The invention provides transition-metal compounds having the ordered-olivine or the rhombohedral NASICON structure and the polyanion (PO.sub.4).sup.3- as at least one constituent for use as electrode material for alkali-ion rechargeable batteries.
A secondary battery comprising: at least one cathode comprising one or more compounds, at least one of the compounds with an olivine structure comprising the general formula LiMPO.sub.4, wherein M comprises Co, Fe, Mn, Ti, or Ni; and at least one lithium anode.
The secondary battery of claim 1, wherein M is Fe.
The secondary battery of claim 1, wherein M is Mn.
The secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the anode comprises metallic lithium.
The secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the anode comprises a lithium alloy.
The secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the anode comprises a lithium-transition metal mixed nitride of antifluorite.
The secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the anode comprises and a lithium-titanium spinel having the formula Li.sub.1+a+zTi.sub.2-aO.sub.4, where 0.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1/3 and 0.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1-2a.
The secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the cathode further comprises a second compound.
The secondary battery of claim 1, wherein the at least one compound with an olivine structure is contained in particles with a particle size on the nanometer scale.
A secondary battery comprising: at least one cathode comprising one or more compounds, at least one of the compounds with an olivine structure comprising the general formula LiMPO.sub.4, wherein M comprises Co, Fe, Mn, Ti, or Ni partially substituted with at least one other metal; and at least one lithium anode.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein M is Fe partially substituted with at least one other metal.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein M is Mn partially substituted with at least one other metal.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the anode comprises metallic lithium.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the anode comprises a lithium alloy.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the anode comprises a lithium-transition metal mixed nitride of antifluorite.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the anode comprises and a lithium-titanium spinel having the formula Li.sub.1+a+zTi.sub.2-aO.sub.4, where 0.ltoreq.a.ltoreq.1/3 and 0.ltoreq.z.ltoreq.1-2a.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the cathode further comprises a second compound.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the at least one compound with an olivine structure is contained in particles with a particle size on the nanometer scale.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein Co, Fe, Mn, Ti, or Ni are partially substituted with up to 10% of the other metal.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the other metal comprises a metal having two filled electron shells.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein M comprises Co, Fe, Mn, Ti, or Ni partially substituted with at least two other metals.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the other metal comprises a divalent cation.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the other metal comprises a trivalent cation.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the other metal comprises a tetravalent cation.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein the other metal comprises a pentavalent cation.
The secondary battery of claim 10, wherein M comprises Fe, Mn, Ti, or Ni and the other metal comprises Co.
Ionic liquid batteries
Novel electric battery systems are disclosed utilizing selected ionic liquids as electrolytes and selected metals and metal oxides as electrodes.
The ionic liquids utilize a substituted imidazolium cation, which does not have the corrosive safety and environmental concerns associated with corrosive acid and alkali electrolytes.
A lithium-free battery consisting essentially of: (a) an anode consisting essentially of one of zinc (Zn), manganese (Mn), aluminum (Al), and lead (Pb); (b) a cathode consisting essentially of a metal oxide selected from the group consisting of MnO.sub.2, PbO.sub.2, NiO, and Ag.sub.2O; and (c) an ionic liquid electrolyte consisting essentially of an imidazolium cation as: ##STR00002## wherein each R independently is H or a halogen; R.sub.1 and R.sub.2 independently are one of hydrogen (H), a halogen, and CH.sub.3; and R.sub.3 is an aliphatic moiety of formula C.sub.nA.sub.m with n.gtoreq.1 and m.gtoreq.n, wherein each A independently is one of H and a halogen of Group 17 (IUPAC designation) elements, and wherein lithium (Li) is excluded among all of said anode, said cathode and said electrolyte.
The battery according to claim 1, wherein said ionic liquid further comprises an anion, said anion being a mineral acid anion.
The battery according to claim 2, wherein said anion is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen sulfate, nitrate, dihydrogen phosphate, and magnesium phosphate.
The battery according to claim 1, wherein said ionic liquid further comprises polyvinyl alcohol.
The battery according to claim 2, wherein said anode comprises zinc, said cathode comprises one of PbO.sub.2 and MnO.sub.2, and said anion comprises hydrogen sulfate.
The battery according to claim 5, wherein said cation is 1-ethyl-3-methyl imidazolium.
Inorganic nano sheet-enabled lithium-exchanging surface-mediated cells
An inorganic material based surface-mediated cell (SMC) comprising (a) a cathode comprising a non-carbon-based inorganic cathode active material having a surface area to capture and store lithium thereon; (b) an anode comprising an anode current collector alone or both an anode current collector and an anode active material; (c) a porous separator; (d) a lithium-containing electrolyte in physical contact with the two electrodes, wherein the cathode has a specific surface area no less than 100 m.sup.2/g which is in direct physical contact with said electrolyte to receive lithium ions therefrom or to provide lithium ions thereto; and (e) a lithium source.
This inorganic SMC provides both high energy density and high power density not achievable by supercapacitors and lithium-ion cells.
An inorganic material surface-mediated, lithium ion-exchanging cell (SMC) comprising: (a) A positive electrode (cathode) comprising a non-carbon-based inorganic cathode active material having a surface area to capture and store lithium thereon, wherein said non-carbon-based cathode active material consists of nano discs, nano platelets, or nano sheets of an inorganic material selected from: (A) bismuth selenide or bismuth telluride, (B) transition metal dichalcogenide or trichalcogenide, (C) sulfide, selenide, or telluride of niobium, zirconium, molybdenum, hafnium, tantalum, tungsten, titanium, cobalt, manganese, iron, nickel, or a transition metal; (D) boron nitride, or (E) a combination thereof; wherein said nano discs, nano platelets, or nano sheets have a thickness less than 100 nm; (b) A negative electrode (anode) comprising an anode current collector alone or both an anode current collector and an anode active material having a surface area to capture or store lithium thereon; (c) A porous separator disposed between the anode and the cathode; (d) A lithium-containing electrolyte in physical contact with the two electrodes, wherein said cathode has a specific surface area no less than 100 m.sup.2/g which is in direct physical contact with said electrolyte to receive lithium ions therefrom or to provide lithium ions thereto; and (e) A lithium source disposed in at least one of the two electrodes or pre-lithiated into or onto said anode when the cell is made; wherein the cell is essentially intercalation free.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said cell contains no oxygen.
An inorganic material surface-mediated, lithium ion-exchanging cell (SMC) comprising: (a) A positive electrode (cathode) comprising a non-carbon-based inorganic cathode active material having a surface area to capture and store lithium thereon, wherein said non-carbon-based cathode active material consists of nano discs, nano platelets, or nano sheets of an inorganic material selected from LiCoO.sub.2, V.sub.2O.sub.5, V.sub.6O.sub.13, LiV.sub.3O.sub.8, LiNi.sub.1-yCo.sub.yO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.yMn.sub.yCo.sub.1-2yO.sub.2, MnO.sub.2, CoO.sub.2, NiO.sub.2, or MoO.sub.3, having a thickness less than 100 nm; (b) A negative electrode (anode) comprising an anode current collector alone or both an anode current collector and an anode active material having a surface area to capture or store lithium thereon; (c) A porous separator disposed between the anode and the cathode; (d) A lithium-containing electrolyte in physical contact with the two electrodes, wherein said cathode has a specific surface area no less than 100 m.sup.2/g which is in direct physical contact with said electrolyte to receive lithium ions therefrom or to provide lithium ions thereto; and (e) A lithium source disposed in at least one of the two electrodes or pre-lithiated into or onto said anode when the cell is made; wherein the cell is essentially intercalation free.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said non-carbon-based cathode active material has a specific surface area no less than 200 m.sup.2/g which is in direct physical contact with said electrolyte, or said nano discs, nano platelets, or nano sheets have a thickness less than 20 nm.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said non-carbon-based cathode active material has a specific surface area no less than 500 m.sup.2/g which is in direct physical contact with said electrolyte, or said nano discs, nano platelets, or nano sheets have a thickness less than 10 nm.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said cathode active material contains a single-layer boron nitride sheet.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said cathode active material contains a zirconium disulfide nano disc having a thickness less than 100 nm.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said cathode further contains a conductive additive and said cathode forms a meso-porous structure having a pore size in the range of 2 nm and 50 nm.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said cathode further contains a resin binder that bonds said nano discs, nano platelets, or nano sheets together.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said cathode further contains a conductive filler selected from graphite or carbon particles, carbon black, expanded graphite, graphene, carbon nanotube, carbon nano-fiber, carbon fiber, conductive polymer, or a combination thereof.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein the lithium source comprises a lithium chip, lithium alloy chip, lithium foil, lithium alloy foil, lithium powder, lithium alloy powder, surface stabilized lithium particles, a mixture of lithium metal or lithium alloy with a lithium intercalation compound, lithium or lithium alloy film coated on a surface of an anode or cathode active material, or a combination thereof.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein said cell has an open-circuit voltage of at least 1.5 volts.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein at least one of the anode current collector or cathode current collector is a porous, electrically conductive material selected from metal foam, metal web or screen, perforated metal sheet, metal fiber mat, metal nanowire mat, porous conductive polymer film, conductive polymer nano-fiber mat or paper, conductive polymer foam, carbon foam, carbon aerogel, carbon xerox gel, graphene foam, graphene oxide foam, reduced graphene oxide foam, carbon fiber paper, graphene paper, graphene oxide paper, reduced graphene oxide paper, carbon nano-fiber paper, carbon nano-tube paper, or a combination thereof.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said anode active material is selected from: (a) porous disordered carbon material selected from a soft carbon, hard carbon, polymeric carbon or carbonized resin, meso-phase carbon, coke, carbonized pitch, carbon black, activated carbon, or partially graphitized carbon; (b) graphene material selected from a single-layer sheet or multi-layer platelet of graphene, graphene oxide having less than 5% by weight oxygen, graphene fluoride, hydrogenated graphene, nitrogenated graphene, boron-doped graphene, nitrogen-doped graphene, functionalized graphene, or reduced graphene oxide; (c) exfoliated graphite; (d) meso-porous carbon; (e) non-functionalized and non-oxidized carbon nanotube; (f) non-functionalized carbon nano-fiber, (g) carbon aerogel or carbon foam, or a combination thereof.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein said anode has a specific surface area no less than 100 m.sup.2/g.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein a discharge operation of said cell involves both lithium intercalation into an interior of said cathode active material and lithium adsorption on surfaces of said cathode active material.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte is organic liquid electrolyte, ionic liquid electrolyte, or gel electrolyte containing a first amount of lithium ions when said cell is made.
The SMC cell of claim 17, wherein an operation of said cell involves an exchange of a second amount of lithium ions between said cathode and said anode and said second amount of lithium is greater than said first amount.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein said anode active material is not intercalated or de-intercalated with lithium when said cell is in operation.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein at least one of the two electrodes has a specific surface area of no less than 1,000 m.sup.2/g that is in direct contact with said electrolyte.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein said anode active material is pre-loaded with lithium before or when the cell is made.
The SMC cell of claim 1, wherein said anode active material is prelithiated with a surface area being pre-coated or pre-plated with lithium before or when said cell is made.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said electrolyte comprises an organic liquid electrolyte, gel electrolyte, a lithium salt-containing ionic liquid, or a combination thereof.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said positive electrode has a thickness greater than 100 .mu.m.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said lithium source contains an amount of lithium sufficient for said anode to retain a non-zero lithium content equivalent to at least 10% of the total anode weight, including said anode current collector and anode active material weights combined, when said device is discharged.
The SMC cell of claim 1 wherein said lithium source is selected from lithium metal, a lithium metal alloy, a mixture of lithium metal or lithium alloy with a lithium intercalation compound, a lithiated compound, lithiated titanium dioxide, lithium titanate, lithium manganate, a lithium transition metal oxide, Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12, or a combination thereof.
The SMC cell of claim 26, wherein the lithium intercalation compound or lithiated compound is selected from the following groups of materials: (a) Lithiated silicon (Si), germanium (Ge), tin (Sn), lead (Pb), antimony (Sb), bismuth (Bi), zinc (Zn), aluminum (Al), titanium (Ti), cobalt (Co), nickel (Ni), manganese (Mn), cadmium (Cd), and mixtures thereof; (b) Lithiated alloys or intermetallic compounds of Si, Ge, Sn, Pb, Sb, Bi, Zn, Al, Ti, Co, Ni, Mn, Cd, and their mixtures; (c) Lithiated oxides, carbides, nitrides, sulfides, phosphides, selenides, tellurides, or antimonides of Si, Ge, Sn, Pb, Sb, Bi, Zn, Al, Fe, Ti, Co, Ni, Mn, Cd, and mixtures or composites thereof, and (d) Lithiated salts or hydroxides of Sn.
A SMC device comprising at least two SMC cells of claim 1 connected in series or in parallel.
A SMC device comprising at least one SMC cell of claim 1, which is electrically connected to an electrochemical cell in series or in parallel.
Cylindrical lithium ion secondary battery
A cylindrical lithium ion secondary battery includes an electrode assembly; a center pin positioned within the electrode assembly and having upper and lower ends that are closed; a can containing the electrode assembly and the center pin; and a cap assembly coupled to the top of the can.
The center pin can include a body extending a predetermined length with its upper and lower end open and at least one closure member adapted to close the upper and lower ends of the body and to melt or fracture at a predetermined temperature.
The center pin body may also or alternatively include a circuit member positioned inside the center pin and adapted to be short-circuited in the case of overcharging and to consume current.
A cylindrical lithium ion secondary battery comprising: an electrode assembly; a center pin positioned within the electrode assembly; a circuit member contained in the center pin and adapted to be short-circuited when a charging voltage is equal to or larger than a reference voltage, the circuit member comprising: a reference voltage source for providing the reference voltage; a voltage comparator adapted to receive the reference voltage from the reference voltage source via a terminal, to receive a battery voltage via another terminal, and to output a short-circuit signal when the battery voltage is larger than the reference voltage; and a short-circuit switch connected in parallel to the battery and adapted to be toggled to an on setting by the short-circuit signal from the voltage comparator and to cause the battery to be short-circuited, the short-circuit switch being a transistor with a collector and an emitter connected in parallel to the battery, and a base connected to an output terminal of the voltage comparator; a heating member connected between the battery and the emitter of the transistor, the heating member having a gasification member mounted thereon, which gasifies at a predetermined temperature and increases an internal pressure of the battery; a can receiving the electrode assembly and the center pin, which contains the circuit member; and a cap assembly coupled to a top of the can, wherein the gasification member comprises at least one material selected from the group consisting of cyclo hexyl benzene (CHB) and biphenyl (BP).
The cylindrical lithium ion secondary battery as claimed in claim 1, wherein the heating member further has a non-flammable member mounted thereon, the non-flammable member being configured to gasify at a predetermined temperature and suppress an occurrence of fire.
The cylindrical lithium ion secondary battery as claimed in claim 2, wherein the heating member is a fuse which melts and is cut off in its operation when the non-flammable member completely gasifies and the temperature reaches 200-300.degree.
C. 4.
The cylindrical lithium ion secondary battery as claimed in claim 2, wherein the non-flammable member comprises at least one material selected from the group consisting of a magnesium hydroxide-based material, an aluminum hydroxide-based material, a halogen-based material, an antimony trioxide-based material, a melamine-based material, and a phosphate-based material.
Low voltage thin film batteries
A low-voltage, thin film battery and methods for making a low voltage battery.
The battery includes a ceramic substrate having a first surface and a second surface.
A cathode current collector is disposed adjacent to at least a portion of the first surface of the substrate.
The current collector has a titanium layer and a gold layer.
A high temperature annealed cathode is disposed adjacent to at least a portion of the gold cathode current collector and an electrolyte layer disposed adjacent to the annealed cathode.
An annealed anode is disposed adjacent to at least a portion of the electrolyte, wherein the anode is electrically insulated from the cathode and the cathode current collectors by the electrolyte.
An anode current collector is disposed adjacent to at least a portion of the anode.
An apparatus for use as a low-voltage, thin film battery comprising: a ceramic substrate having a first surface and a second surface; a cathode current collector disposed adjacent to at least a portion of the first surface of the substrate, the current collector having a titanium layer and a gold layer; a high temperature annealed cathode from a radio frequency (rf) magnetron sputtered cathode target in an argon atmosphere is disposed adjacent to at least a portion of the gold cathode current collector, wherein the cathode is selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2 and LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4 and the cathode is annealed at a temperature of at least 700.degree.
C.; an electrolyte layer disposed adjacent to the annealed cathode; an annealed anode disposed adjacent to at least a portion of the electrolyte, wherein the anode is electrically insulated from the cathode and the cathode current collectors by the electrolyte, and wherein the anode is derived from a lithium intercalation compound selected from the group consisting of V.sub.2O.sub.5, TiS.sub.2, MoS.sub.2, MoO.sub.2-xS.sub.x, and MoO.sub.3, wherein x is between 0 and 2; and an anode current collector disposed adjacent to at least a portion of the anode.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the anode current collector comprises a copper film ranging from about 0.1 .mu.m to about 0.5 .mu.m in thickness.
The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the anode current collector further comprises a gold film disposed adjacent to at least a portion of the copper film, wherein the gold film ranges from about 0.1 .mu.m to about 0.5 .mu.m in thickness.
The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a hermetic package substantially enclosing the apparatus, wherein at least a portion of the cathode current collector and at least a portion of the anode current collector are not enclosed by the hermetic package.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the anode comprises a V.sub.2O.sub.5 anode that is converted upon an initial charging of the apparatus to a .omega.Li.sub.xV.sub.2O.sub.5 anode, wherein x is between 0 and 4.
The apparatus of claim 1, having an operating voltage ranging between about 2.5 volts and about 0.0 volt.
The apparatus of claim 1, having an operating voltage ranging between about 2.2 volts and about 1.0 volt.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the titanium layer of the cathode current collector comprises a titanium film ranging from about 0.01 .mu.m to about 0.10 .mu.m in thickness.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the gold layer of the cathode current collector comprises a gold film ranging from about 0.1 .mu.m to about 0.3 .mu.m in thickness.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cathode comprises a film ranging from about 1 .mu.m to about 5 .mu.m in thickness.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte layer comprises an amorphous lithium phosphorus oxynitride film ranging from about 0.5 .mu.m to about 2.0 .mu.m in thickness.
The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the anode comprises a film ranging from about 0.2 .mu.m to about 2.0 .mu.m in thickness.
An electronic device comprising a real time clock circuit wherein the circuit comprises the thin film battery of claim 1.
The electronic device of claim 13, wherein the thin film battery provides backup power for a real time clock in place of a capacitor in the electronic device.
A method for making low-voltage, thin film battery, comprising the steps of: depositing a cathode current collector on at least a portion of a first surface of a substrate, wherein the cathode current collector comprises a titanium layer adjacent to the substrate and a gold layer adjacent to the titanium layer; depositing a cathode film radio frequency (rf) magnetron sputtering a cathode target in an argon atmosphere on at least a portion of the gold film, wherein the cathode is selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2 and LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4; annealing the cathode film in air at a temperature ranging from at least 700.degree.
C. to 800.degree.
C. for a period of time ranging from 10 minutes to 30 minutes; depositing an electrolyte layer on at least a portion of the annealed cathode; depositing an anode film on at least a portion of the electrolyte layer, wherein the anode is derived from a lithium intercalation compound selected from the group consisting of V.sub.2O.sub.5, TiS.sub.2, MoS.sub.2, MoO.sub.2-xS.sub.x, and MoO.sub.3, wherein x is between 0 and 4; annealing the anode film; and depositing an anode current collector on at least a portion of the anode film.
The method of claim 15, wherein the step of annealing the anode comprises: prior to depositing the anode current collector on the anode film, heating the battery at a temperature ranging from about 250.degree.
to about 350.degree.
C. for a period of time ranging from about 15 minutes to about 30 minutes, while exposing the anode film to air.
The method of claim 15, wherein the step of depositing the anode current collector further comprises depositing a copper anode current collector film on at least a portion of the anode.
The method of claim 17, further comprising depositing a gold current collector film on at least a portion of the copper film.
The method of claim 15, wherein the step of depositing the anode film comprises rf magnetron sputtering of vanadium under a gas mixture comprising argon gas and from about 18% to 22% by volume of O.sub.2, to provide a V.sub.2O.sub.5 film disposed on at least a portion of the electrolyte layer.
A rechargeable thin film battery made by the method of claim 15.
Electrodes including a polyphosphazene cyclomatrix, methods of forming the  electrodes, and related electrochemical cells
An electrode comprising a polyphosphazene cyclomatrix and particles within pores of the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix.
The polyphosphazene cyclomatrix comprises a plurality of phosphazene compounds and a plurality of cross-linkages.
Each phosphazene compound of the plurality of phosphazene compounds comprises a plurality of phosphorus-nitrogen units, and at least one pendant group bonded to each phosphorus atom of the plurality of phosphorus-nitrogen units.
Each phosphorus-nitrogen unit is bonded to an adjacent phosphorus-nitrogen unit.
Each cross-linkage of the plurality of cross-linkages bonds at least one pendant group of one phosphazene compound of the plurality of phosphazene compounds with the at least one pendant group of another phosphazene compound of the plurality of phosphazene compounds.
A method of forming a negative electrode and an electrochemical cell are also described.
An electrode, comprising: a polyphosphazene cyclomatrix configured and formulated for ion intercalation, the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix comprising: a plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds, each cyclic phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds comprising: a plurality of phosphorus-nitrogen units, each phosphorus-nitrogen unit bonded to an adjacent phosphorus-nitrogen unit; and at least one pendant group bonded to each phosphorus atom of the plurality of phosphorus-nitrogen units; and a plurality of cross-linkages, each cross-linkage of the plurality of cross-linkages bonding the at least one pendant group of one cyclic phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds with the at least one pendant group of another cyclic phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds; and particles within pores of the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein each cyclic phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds comprises the following structure: ##STR00007## where each R comprises --X--G--L; where each X independently comprises --O--, --S--, or --NH--; each G independently comprises an alkylene group, a heteroalkylene group, an alkenylene group, a heteroalkenylene group, an alkynylene group, an heteroalkynylene group, an alicyclic group, a substituted alicyclic group, a heteroalicyclic group, a substituted heteroalicyclic group, an arylene group, a substituted arylene group, a heteroarylene group, a substituted heteroarylene group, --CO--, --SO.sub.2--, --SO--, --PO--, --O--, --S--, or --NH--; and each L independently comprises a reactive functional group.
The electrode of claim 2, wherein each G independently comprises an alkyl-substituted arylene group, an alkoxy-substituted arylene group, a heteroalkyl-substituted arylene group, or a halogenated alkyl-substituted arylene group.
The electrode of claim 2, wherein the reactive functional group comprises an amide group, an amino group, an alkyl halide group, an aldehyde group, a carbonyl group, a carboxyl group, a hydroxyl group, a mercaptan group, or a thiol group.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein each cyclic phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds comprises the following structure: ##STR00008## where each R independently comprises a hydroquinone group or a substituted hydroquinone group.
The electrode of claim 5, wherein at least one R comprises a methylhydroquinone, ethylhydroquinone, tert-butylhydroquinone, isopropyl hydroquinone, n-propylhydroquinone, isobutylhydroquinone, butylhydroquinone, methoxyhydroquinone, ethoxyhydroquinone, n-propoxyhydroquinone, isopropoxyhydroquinone, n-butoxyhydroquinone, isobutoxyhydroquinone, t-butoxyhydroquinone, halo-methylhydroquinone, halo-ethylhydroquinone, halo-n-propylhydroquinone, halo-isopropylhydroquinone, halo-n-butylhydroquinone, halo-isobutylhydroquinone, or halo-t-butylhydroquinone group.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein each cross-linkage of the plurality of cross-linkages comprises an ester group, a urea group, a urethane group, an amide group, an ether group, or a sulfone group.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein each cross-linkage of the plurality of cross-linkages comprises at least one of a diester, a diurea, a diurethane, a diamide, a diether, and a disulfone.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein each cross-linkage of the plurality of cross-linkages comprises: ##STR00009## 10.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein the particles comprise particles of at least one of silicon, germanium, tin, aluminum, alloys thereof, and oxides thereof.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein the particles comprise particles of at least one of a carbonaceous material and a conductive polymer.
The electrode of claim 11, wherein the carbonaceous material comprises at least one of graphite, synthetic graphite, hard carbon, activated carbon, mesophase carbon, carbon blacks, pyrolytic carbon, glassy carbon, coal, coke, diamond, and fullerenes.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein the particles comprise particles of at least one lithium salt.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein the electrode comprises from about 60 percent by weight to about 95 percent by weight of the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein the electrode comprises from about 5 percent by weight to about 40 percent by weight of the particles.
The electrode of claim 1, wherein the electrode comprises from about 0 percent by weight to about 30 percent by weight of silicon particles, and from about 0 percent by weight to about 30 percent by weight of carbonaceous material particles.
The electrode of claim 1, further comprising at least one additional polyphosphazene cyclomatrix having at least one different property than the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix.
A method of forming an electrode, comprising: forming an electrode composition comprising particles, at least one crosslinking agent, and a plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds, each of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds comprising: a plurality of phosphorus-nitrogen units; and at least one pendant group bonded to each phosphorus atom of the plurality of phosphorus-nitrogen units; and applying the electrode composition on at least one surface of a current collector; and treating the electrode composition to form a polyphosphazene cyclomatrix configured and formulated for ion intercalation, the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix comprising: the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds; a plurality of cross-linkages, each cross-linkage of the plurality of cross-linkages bonding one cyclic phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds with another cyclic phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds; and the particles within pores of the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix.
The method of claim 18, wherein treating the electrode composition comprises applying at least one of heat and pressure to the electrode composition on the at least one surface of the current collector.
The method of claim 18, further comprising formulating the electrode composition to comprise at least one solvent.
The method of claim 20, wherein applying the electrode composition on at least one surface of a current collector comprises spraying the electrode composition on the at least one surface of the current collector.
The method of claim 21, wherein treating the electrode composition comprises evaporating the at least one solvent from the electrode composition on the at least one surface of the current collector.
The method of claim 18, wherein treating the electrode composition comprises exposing the electrode composition on the at least one surface of the current collector to at least one of heat and radiation.
An electrochemical cell, comprising: a negative electrode comprising: a polyphosphazene cyclomatrix configured and formulated for ion intercalation, the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix comprising: a plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds, each cyclic phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds comprising: a plurality of phosphorus-nitrogen units; and at least one pendant group bonded to each phosphorus atom of the plurality of phosphorus-nitrogen units; and a plurality of cross-linkages, each cross-linkage of the plurality of cross-linkages bonding one phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds with another cyclic phosphazene compound of the plurality of cyclic phosphazene compounds; and particles within pores of the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix; a positive electrode; and a separator comprising at least one electrolyte between the negative electrode and the positive electrode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 24, wherein the electrochemical cell has an average operating cell voltage of greater than or equal to about 3.5 V. 26.
The electrochemical cell of claim 24, wherein the electrochemical cell has a specific gravimetric capacity of greater than or equal to about 200 Ah kg.sup.-1.
The electrochemical cell of claim 24, wherein the at least one electrolyte comprises at least one lithium salt.
The electrochemical cell of claim 24, wherein the negative electrode further comprises at least one additional polyphosphazene cyclomatrix having at least one different property than the polyphosphazene cyclomatrix.
Positive active material and method of preparing same and rechargeable  lithium battery including same
Disclosed are a positive active material that includes a core particle including a lithium-containing compound configured to reversibly intercalate and deintercalate lithium, and a coating layer on a surface of the core particle, the coating layer including a material including a carbon-fluorine (C--F) bond, a method of manufacturing the same, and a rechargeable lithium battery including the positive active material.
A positive active material, comprising: a core particle comprising a lithium-containing compound configured to reversibly intercalate and deintercalate lithium; and a coating material comprising a fluorine-bonded carbon nanostructure comprising a fluorine-bonded carbon nanotube comprising a carbon-fluorine (C--F) bond, wherein the coating material is directly on a surface of the lithium-containing compound of the core particle.
The positive active material of claim 1, wherein the coating material further comprises a fluorine-bonded graphene, a fluorine-bonded carbon black, a fluorine-bonded graphite, a fluorine-bonded acetylene black, a fluorine-bonded carbon fine powder, a fluorinated organic material, or a combination thereof.
The positive active material of claim 1, wherein the fluorine-bonded carbon nanostructure comprises the C--F bond, and the C--F bond of the fluorine-bonded carbon nanostructure exhibits a peak in a range of about 950 cm.sup.-1 to about 1350 cm.sup.-1 as measured by FT-IR spectroscopy.
The positive active material of claim 1, wherein: the core particle further comprises carbon; and the C--F bond of the coating material is formed from at least a portion of the carbon of the core particle, and exhibits a peak in a range of about 1150 cm.sup.-1 to about 1160 cm.sup.-1 as measured by FT-IR spectroscopy.
The positive active material of claim 1, wherein the core particle further comprises carbon, and the coating material further comprises LiF.
The positive active material of claim 5, wherein the LiF exhibits a (111) peak at a 2.theta.
value of about 39.degree., a (200) peak at a 2.theta.
value of about 45.degree., and a (220) peak at a 2.theta.
value of about 63.degree.
as measured by X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis.
A method of manufacturing a positive active material, the method comprising: preparing a lithium-containing compound configured to reversibly intercalate and deintercalate lithium; and forming a coating layer directly on a surface of the lithium-containing compound, the coating layer comprising a coating material comprising a fluorine-bonded carbon nanostructure comprising a fluorine-bonded carbon nanotube comprising a carbon-fluorine (C--F) bond.
The method of claim 7, wherein the forming the coating layer comprises: fluorinating the surface of a carbon particle to form a fluorinated carbon particle; and coating the surface of the lithium-containing compound with the fluorinated carbon particle.
The method of claim 8, wherein the carbon particle comprises a carbon nanostructure comprising a carbon nanotube.
The method of claim 8, wherein the fluorinating the surface of the carbon particle comprises: supplying a fluorine-containing gas and an inert gas at a ratio in a range of about 5:95 to about 95:5 (v/v) at a temperature in a range of about 25.degree.
C. to about 500.degree.
C. to the carbon particle.
The method of claim 7, wherein the forming the coating layer comprises: forming a carbon thin layer on the lithium-containing compound; and fluorinating the carbon thin layer.
The method of claim 11, wherein the forming the carbon thin layer on the lithium-containing compound comprises: preparing a mixture of the lithium-containing compound and a carbon precursor to form a mixture; and heat-treating the mixture.
The method of claim 12, wherein the carbon precursor is included in the mixture in an amount in a range of about 0.1 wt % to about 30 wt % based on the total amount of the mixture.
The method of claim 11, wherein the fluorinating the carbon thin layer comprises: supplying a fluorine-containing gas and an inert gas at a ratio in a range of about 5:95 to about 95:5 (v/v) to the carbon thin layer at a temperature in a range of about 25.degree.
C. to about 500.degree.
C. 15.
The method of claim 7, wherein the forming the coating layer comprises directly fluorinating the surface of the lithium-containing compound.
A rechargeable lithium battery, comprising: a positive electrode comprising the positive active material according to claim 1; a negative electrode; and an electrolyte.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 16, further comprising: a LiF film formed on the surface of the positive electrode.
The rechargeable lithium battery of claim 17, wherein the LiF film exhibits a binding energy peak in a range of about 685 eV to about 690 eV in an X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis.
The positive active material of claim 1, wherein the coating material further comprises a fluorine-bonded carbon nano fiber, a fluorine-bonded carbon nano ribbon, a fluorine-bonded carbon nano bead, or a combination thereof.
The method of claim 9, wherein the carbon particle further comprises graphene, carbon black, graphite, acetylene black, a carbon fine powder, an organic material, or a combination thereof.
Alloys of clathrate allotropes for rechargeable batteries
The present disclosure is directed at an electrode for a battery wherein the electrode comprises clathrate alloys of silicon, germanium or tin.
In method form, the present disclosure is directed at methods of forming clathrate alloys of silicon, germanium or tin which methods lead to the formation of empty cage structures suitable for use as electrodes in rechargeable type batteries.
An electrode in an electrochemical battery wherein said electrode comprises clathrate alloys of silicon, germanium and/or tin of one of the following formulas: (a) Type I clathrate alloy A.sub.xM.sub.yX.sub.46-y, wherein A=Li with none, one or more guest atoms selected from group 1A, group 2A, group 1B, group 2B, group 3B, group 5A, group 7A and group 8; M=Si, Ge, Sn, Al, Cu or Ga; X=Si, Ge and/or Sn wherein M.noteq.X.noteq.A; y is a number value greater than zero; and x is a number value; and (b) Type II clathrate alloy A.sub.xM.sub.yX.sub.34-y where A=Li with none, one or more guest atoms from group 1A, group 2A, group 1B, group 2B, group 3B, group 5A, group 7A and group 8; M=B, Al, P, S, Cu, Ni, Zn, Ag, Au, Pt, Ga, Se or any metal or metalloid element capable of forming a clathrate with X; X=Si, Ge or Sn wherein M.noteq.X.noteq.A; y is a number value greater than zero; and x is a number value.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said alloy comprises particles having a largest linear dimension of in the range of 0.1 .mu.m to 100.0 .mu.m.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said electrode comprises a metal substrate and said clathrate alloy is present on the surface of said metal substrate.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein lithiation of said alloy results in a volume expansion of less than or equal to 50.0%.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said electrode comprises an anode electrode in a Li battery.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said electrode comprises a cathode electrode in a Li battery.
The electrode of claim 1 comprising a Type I clathrate alloy containing an arrangement of 20-atom and 24-atom cages fused together through 5 atom pentagonal rings.
The electrode of claim 7 wherein said Type I clathrate alloy has the formula: A.sub.xM.sub.yX.sub.46-y.
The electrode of claim 1 comprising a Type II clathrate alloy containing an arrangement of 20-atom and 28-atom cages fused together through 5 atom pentagonal rings.
The electrode of claim 1 wherein said Type II clathrate alloy has the formula: A.sub.xM.sub.yX.sub.34-y.
A lithium-ion battery comprising: an anode containing clathrate alloys of silicon, germanium and/or tin, of one of the following formulas: (a) Type I clathrate alloy A.sub.xM.sub.yX.sub.46-y, wherein A=Li with none, one or more guest atoms selected from group 1A, group 2A, group 1B, group 2B, group 3B, group 5A, group 7A and group 8; M=Si, Ge, Sn, Al, Cu or Ga; X=Si, Ge and/or Sn wherein M.noteq.X.noteq.A; y is a number value greater than zero; and x is a number value; and (b) Type II clathrate alloy A.sub.xM.sub.yX.sub.34-y where A=Li with none, one or more guest atoms from group 1A, group 2A, group 1B, group 2B, group 3B, group 5A, group 7A and group 8; M=B, Al, P, S, Cu, Ni, Zn, Ag, Au, Pt, Ga, Se or any metal or metalloid element capable of forming a clathrate with X; X=Si, Ge or Sn wherein M.noteq.X.noteq.A; y is a number value greater than zero; and x is a number value; a cathode; and an electrolyte.
Class of solid-state electrolytes for rechargeable lithium batteries
A solid-state electrolyte for rechargeable lithium batteries.
The solid state electrolyte comprises a large unsaturated aromatic anion and a lithium charge carrier.
The large unsaturated aromatic anion is selected from a di-lithium phthalocyanine and a di-lithium porphyrin, wherein one of the lithium ions of the unsaturated aromatic anion is replaced with a nitrogenous cation.
A solid-state electrolyte for rechargeable lithium batteries comprising: (a) a large unsaturated aromatic anion selected from the group consisting of di-lithium phthalocyanine and di-lithium porphyrin, wherein one of the lithium ions of the unsaturated aromatic anion is replaced with a nitrogenous cation; and (b) a lithium ion charge carrier.
The solid-state electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the nitrogeneous cation is selected from the group consisting of tetraalkylammonium, imidazolium, pyridinium, and combinations thereof, wherein the components of the nitrogeneous cation include atoms other than carbon.
The solid-state electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the lithium charge carrier is a lithium salt.
The solid-state electrolyte of claim 3, wherein the lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of lithium iodide, lithium bromide, lithium chloride, lithium fluoride, lithium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide, or mixtures thereof.
The solid-state electrolyte of claim 3, wherein a mole ratio of the lithium salt to the unsaturated aromatic anion ranges from 0.1 to 4.5.
Cable-type secondary battery and preparation thereof
The present disclosure provides a cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, spirally wound to surround the outer surface of the inner electrode, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit, and an outer electrode.
According to the present disclosure, the electrodes and the separation layer are compressed and integrated to minimize ununiform spaces between the separation layer and the outer electrode and reduce the thickness of a battery to be prepared, thereby decreasing resistance and improving ionic conductivity within the battery.
Also, the separation layer coming into contact with the electrodes absorbs an electrolyte solution to induce the uniform supply of the electrolyte solution into the outer electrode active material layer, thereby enhancing the stability and performances of the cable-type secondary battery.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, helically wound to surround an outer surface of the inner electrode, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit and an outer electrode, wherein the separation layer is an electrolyte layer or a separator.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the electrolyte layer comprises an electrolyte selected from a gel polymer electrolyte using PEO, PVdF, PMMA, PVdF-HFP, PAN, or PVAc; and a solid electrolyte using PEO, polypropylene oxide (PPO), polyether imine (PEI), polyethylene sulphide (PES), or polyvinyl acetate (PVAc).
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the electrolyte layer further comprises a lithium salt.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 3, wherein the lithium salt is selected from the group consisting of LiCl, LiBr, LiI, LiClO.sub.4, LiBF.sub.4, LiB.sub.10Cl.sub.10, LiPF.sub.6, LiCF.sub.3SO.sub.3, LiCF.sub.3CO.sub.2, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiAlCl.sub.4, CH.sub.3SO.sub.3Li, CF.sub.3SO.sub.3Li, (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.2NLi, lithium chloroborate, lower aliphatic lithium carbonate, lithium tetraphenylborate, and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the separator is a porous polymer substrate made of a polyolefin-based polymer selected from the group consisting of ethylene homopolymers, propylene homopolymers, ethylene-butene copolymers, ethylene-hexene copolymers, and ethylene-methacrylate copolymers; a porous polymer substrate made of a polymer selected from the group consisting of polyesters, polyacetals, polyamides, polycarbonates, polyimides, polyether ether ketones, polyether sulfones, polyphenylene oxides, polyphenylene sulfides and polyethylene naphthalates; a porous substrate made of a mixture of inorganic particles and a binder polymer; or a separator having a porous coating layer formed on at least one surface of the porous polymer substrate and comprising inorganic particles and a binder polymer.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 5, wherein the porous polymer substrate is a porous polymer film substrate or a porous non-woven fabric substrate.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, helically wound to surround an outer surface of the inner electrode, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit and an outer electrode; and a protection coating surrounding an outer surface of the sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 7, wherein the protection coating is made of a polymer resin.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 8, wherein the polymer resin comprises any one selected from the group consisting of PET, PVC, HDPE, an epoxy resin and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 8, wherein the protection coating further comprises a moisture-blocking layer.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 10, wherein the moisture-blocking layer is made of aluminum or a liquid-crystalline polymer.
A method of preparing a cable-type secondary battery, comprising (S1) winding a wire-form inner current collector together with an inner electrode active material layer formed on a surface of the inner current collector to obtain a hollow inner electrode whose central part is empty; (S2) compressing a sheet of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit with a sheet of an outer electrode having an outer current collector and an outer electrode active material layer formed on one surface of the outer current collector for the integration thereof to obtain a laminate of separation layer-outer electrode; (S3) helically winding the laminate of separation layer-outer electrode on an outer surface of the inner electrode to obtain an electrode assembly; (S4) forming a protection coating on an outer surface of the electrode assembly; and (S5) introducing an electrolyte solution in the empty central part of the inner electrode to form a core for supplying lithium ions.
A method of preparing a cable-type secondary battery, comprising (S1) forming a core for supplying lithium ions; (S2) winding a wire-form inner current collector together with an inner electrode active material layer formed on a surface of the inner current collector, on an outer surface of the core for supplying lithium ions, to obtain an inner electrode; (S3) compressing a sheet of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit with a sheet of an outer electrode having an outer current collector and an outer electrode active material layer formed on one surface of the outer current collector for the integration thereof to obtain a laminate of separation layer-outer electrode; (S4) helically winding the laminate of separation layer-outer electrode on an outer surface of the inner electrode to obtain an electrode assembly; and (S5) forming a protection coating on an outer surface of the electrode assembly.
Cable-type secondary battery and preparation thereof
The present disclosure provides a cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, spirally wound to surround the outer surface of the inner electrode, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit, and an outer electrode.
According to the present disclosure, the electrodes and the separation layer are compressed and integrated to minimize ununiform spaces between the separation layer and the outer electrode and reduce the thickness of a battery to be prepared, thereby decreasing resistance and improving ionic conductivity within the battery.
Also, the separation layer coming into contact with the electrodes absorbs an electrolyte solution to induce the uniform supply of the electrolyte solution into the outer electrode active material layer, thereby enhancing the stability and performances of the cable-type secondary battery.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, helically wound to surround an outer surface of the inner electrode, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit and an outer electrode, wherein a peel strength between the separation layer and the outer electrode is 15 to 300 N/m, wherein the inner electrode includes at least one inner current collector and an inner electrode active material layer formed on one surface of the inner current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the inner current collector further comprises a primer coating layer consisting of a conductive material and a binder.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 2, wherein the conductive material comprises any one selected from the group consisting of carbon black, acetylene black, ketjen black, carbon fiber, carbon nanotube, graphene and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 2, wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), polyvinylidene fluoride-co-hexafluoro propylene, polyvinylidene fluoride-co-trichloroethylene, polybutyl acrylate, polymethyl methacrylate, polyacrylonitrile, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinylacetate, polyethylene-co-vinyl acetate, polyethylene oxide, polyarylate, cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate propionate, cyanoethylpullulan, cyanoethylpolyvinylalcohol, cyanoethylcellulose, cyanoethylsucrose, pullulan, carboxyl methyl cellulose, styrene-butadiene rubber, acrylonitrile-styrene-butadiene copolymer, polyimide and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of recesses are formed on at least one surface of the inner current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 5, wherein the plurality of recesses are continuously patterned or intermittently patterned.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 6, wherein the continuously patterned recesses are spaced apart from each other in a longitudinal direction.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 6, wherein the intermittently patterned recesses are formed with a plurality of holes.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 8, wherein the plurality of holes have a circular or polygonal shape.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the inner electrode has a structure that the inner electrode active material layer is formed on the whole surface of the inner current collector, or a structure that the inner electrode active material layer is formed to surround the outer surface of the inner current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the inner electrode further comprises a polymer supporting layer formed on the surface of the inner electrode active material layer.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 11, wherein the polymer supporting layer is a porous layer having a pore size of 0.01 to 10 .mu.m and a porosity of 5 to 95%.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 11, wherein the polymer supporting layer comprises a linear polymer with polarity, an oxide-based linear polymer or a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 13, wherein the linear polymer with polarity is selected from the group consisting of polyacrylonitrile, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), polyvinylidene fluoride-co-hexafluoro propylene, polyvinylidene fluoride-co-trichloroethylene, polyethylene imine, polymethyl methacrylate, polybutyl acrylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinylacetate, polyethylene-co-vinyl acetate, polyarylate, poly-p-phenylene terephthalamide and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 13, wherein the oxide-based linear polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene oxide, polypropylene oxide, polyoxymethylene, polydimethylsiloxane and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the inner current collector is made of stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, titanium, sintered carbon, or copper; stainless steel treated with carbon, nickel, titanium or silver on the surface thereof; an aluminum-cadmium alloy; a non-conductive polymer treated with a conductive material on the surface thereof; or a conductive polymer.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 16, wherein the conductive material is selected from the group consisting of polyacetylene, polyaniline, polypyrrole, polythiophene, polysulfurnitride, indium tin oxide (ITO), silver, palladium, nickel and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 16, wherein the conductive polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyacetylene, polyaniline, polypyrrole, polythiophene, polysulfurnitride and a mixture thereof.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, helically wound to surround an outer surface of the inner electrode, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit and an outer electrode, wherein a peel strength between the separation layer and the outer electrode is 15 to 300 N/m, wherein the inner electrode is a hollow structure whose central part is empty.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 19, wherein the inner electrode comprises one or more wire-form inner current collectors being helically wound or one or more sheet-form inner current collectors being helically wound.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 19, wherein the inner electrode comprises two or more wire-form inner current collectors being helically crossed with each other.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 19, wherein the inner electrode is provided with a core of inner current collector, a core for supplying lithium ions, which comprises an electrolyte, or a filling core therein.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 22, wherein the core of inner current collector is made of carbon nanotube, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, titanium, sintered carbon, or copper; stainless steel treated with carbon, nickel, titanium or silver on the surface thereof; an aluminum-cadmium alloy; a non-conductive polymer treated with a conductive material on the surface thereof; or a conductive polymer.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 22, wherein the core for supplying lithium ions comprises a gel polymer electrolyte and a support.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 22, wherein the core for supplying lithium ions comprises a liquid electrolyte and a porous carrier.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 22, wherein the electrolyte is selected from a non-aqueous electrolyte solution using ethylene carbonate (EC), propylene carbonate (PC), butylenes carbonate (BC), vinylene carbonate (VC), diethyl carbonate (DEC), dimethyl carbonate (DMC), ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC), methyl formate (MF), .gamma.-butyrolactone (.gamma.-BL), sulfolane, methyl acetate (MA) or methyl propionate (MP); a gel polymer electrolyte using PEO, PVdF, PVdF-HFP, PMMA, PAN, or PVAc; and a solid electrolyte using PEO, polypropylene oxide (PPO), polyether imine (PEI), polyethylene sulphide (PES), or polyvinyl acetate (PVAc).
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 22, wherein the electrolyte further comprises a lithium salt.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 27, wherein the lithium salt is selected from LiCl, LiBr, LiI, LiClO.sub.4, LiBF.sub.4, LiB.sub.10Cl.sub.10, LiPF.sub.6, LiCF.sub.3SO.sub.3, LiCF.sub.3CO.sub.2, LiAsF.sub.6, LiSbF.sub.6, LiAlCl.sub.4, CH.sub.3SO.sub.3Li, CF.sub.3SO.sub.3Li, (CF.sub.3SO.sub.2).sub.2NLi, lithium chloroborate, lower aliphatic lithium carbonate, lithium tetraphenylborate, and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 22, the filling core is made of polymer resins, rubber and inorganics in the form of a wire, a fiber, a powder, a mesh or a foam.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: a core for supplying lithium ions, which comprises an electrolyte; an inner electrode having one or more wire-form inner current collectors wound to surround an outer surface of the core for supplying lithium ions and an inner electrode active material layer formed on a surface of the wire-form inner current collectors; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, helically wound to surround an outer surface of the inner electrode, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit and an outer electrode having an outer current collector and an outer electrode active material layer formed on one surface of the outer current collector, wherein a peel strength between the separation layer and the outer electrode is 15 to 300 N/m.
Cable-type secondary battery and preparation thereof
The present disclosure provides a cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, spirally wound to surround the outer surface of the inner electrode, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit, and an outer electrode.
According to the present disclosure, the electrodes and the separation layer are compressed and integrated to minimize ununiform spaces between the separation layer and the outer electrode and reduce the thickness of a battery to be prepared, thereby decreasing resistance and improving ionic conductivity within the battery.
Also, the separation layer coming into contact with the electrodes absorbs an electrolyte solution to induce the uniform supply of the electrolyte solution into the outer electrode active material layer, thereby enhancing the stability and performances of the cable-type secondary battery.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, helically wound to surround an outer surface of the inner electrode, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit and an outer electrode, wherein a peel strength between the separation layer and the outer electrode is 15 to 300 N/m.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode has a strip structure extending in one direction.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode is helically wound so that it does not overlap itself.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 3, wherein the sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode is helically wound so that each pass of its helical winding is separated by a space.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode is helically wound so that it overlaps itself.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 5, wherein the sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode is helically wound so that a width of its overlapped part is less than or equal to 90% of a width of the sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the outer electrode comprises an outer current collector and an outer electrode active material layer formed on one surface of the outer current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 7, wherein in the laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, the separation layer and the outer electrode active material layer come into contact with each other.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 8, wherein the laminate of separation layer-outer electrode further comprises a polymer film formed on another surface of the outer current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 9, wherein the polymer film is made of any one selected from the group consisting of polyolefin, polyester, polyimide, polyamide and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 7, wherein the outer current collector is in the form of a mesh.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 7, wherein the separation layer has an area that is larger in size than that of the outer current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 7, wherein the outer current collector further comprises a primer coating layer consisting of a conductive material and a binder.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 13, wherein the conductive material comprises any one selected from the group consisting of carbon black, acetylene black, ketjen black, carbon fiber, carbon nanotube, graphene and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 13, wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), polyvinylidene fluoride-co-hexafluoro propylene, polyvinylidene fluoride-co-trichloroethylene, polybutyl acrylate, polymethyl methacrylate, polyacrylonitrile, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinylacetate, polyethylene-co-vinyl acetate, polyethylene oxide, polyarylate, cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate propionate, cyanoethylpullulan, cyanoethylpolyvinylalcohol, cyanoethylcellulose, cyanoethylsucrose, pullulan, carboxyl methyl cellulose, styrene-butadiene rubber, acrylonitrile-styrene-butadiene copolymer, polyimide and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 7, wherein a plurality of recesses are formed on at least one surface of the outer current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 16, wherein the plurality of recesses are continuously patterned or intermittently patterned.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 17, wherein the continuously patterned recesses are spaced apart from each other in a longitudinal direction.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 17, wherein the intermittently patterned recesses are formed with a plurality of holes.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 19, wherein the plurality of holes have a circular or polygonal shape.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 7, wherein the outer current collector is made of stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, titanium, sintered carbon, or copper; stainless steel treated with carbon, nickel, titanium or silver on the surface thereof; an aluminum-cadmium alloy; a non-conductive polymer treated with a conductive material on the surface thereof; a conductive polymer; a metal paste comprising metal powders of Ni, Al, Au, Ag, Pd/Ag, Cr, Ta, Cu, Ba or ITO; or a carbon paste comprising carbon powders of graphite, carbon black or carbon nanotube.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 21, wherein the conductive material is selected from the group consisting of polyacetylene, polyaniline, polypyrrole, polythiophene, polysulfurnitride, indium tin oxide (ITO), silver, palladium, nickel and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 21, wherein the conductive polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyacetylene, polyaniline, polypyrrole, polythiophene, polysulfurnitride and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the inner electrode is an anode or a cathode, and the outer electrode is a cathode or an anode corresponding to the inner electrode.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein when the inner electrode is an anode and the outer electrode is a cathode, an inner electrode active material of the inner electrode comprises an active material selected from the group consisting of natural graphite, artificial graphite, or carbonaceous material; lithium-titanium complex oxide (LTO), and metals (Me) including Si, Sn, Li, Zn, Mg, Cd, Ce, Ni and Fe; alloys of the metals; an oxide (MeOx) of the metals; a complex of the metals and carbon; and a mixture thereof, and an outer electrode active material of the outer electrode comprises an active material selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiCoPO.sub.4, LiFePO.sub.4, LiNiMnCoO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.1-x-y-zCo.sub.xM1.sub.yM2.sub.zO.sub.2 (wherein M1 and M2 are each independently selected from the group consisting of Al, Ni, Co, Fe, Mn, V, Cr, Ti, W, Ta, Mg and Mo, and x, y and z are each independently an atomic fraction of oxide-forming elements, in which 0.ltoreq.x<0.5, 0.ltoreq.y<0.5, 0.ltoreq.z<0.5, and x+y+z.ltoreq.1), and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein when the inner electrode is a cathode and the outer electrode is an anode, an inner electrode active material of the inner electrode comprises an active material selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiCoPO.sub.4, LiFePO.sub.4, LiNiMnCoO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.1-x-y-zCo.sub.xM1.sub.yM2.sub.zO.sub.2 (wherein M1 and M2 are each independently selected from the group consisting of Al, Ni, Co, Fe, Mn, V, Cr, Ti, W, Ta, Mg and Mo, and x, y and z are each independently an atomic fraction of oxide-forming elements, in which 0.ltoreq.x<0.5, 0.ltoreq.y<0.5, 0.ltoreq.z<0.5, and x+y+z.ltoreq.1), and a mixture thereof, and an outer electrode active material of the outer electrode comprises an active material selected from the group consisting of natural graphite, artificial graphite, or carbonaceous material; lithium-titanium complex oxide (LTO), and metals (Me) including Si, Sn, Li, Zn, Mg, Cd, Ce, Ni and Fe; alloys of the metals; an oxide (MeOx) of the metals; a complex of the metals and carbon; and a mixture thereof.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: two or more inner electrodes arranged in parallel to each other; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, helically wound to surround outer surfaces of the two or more inner electrodes, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit and an outer electrode, wherein a peel strength between the separation layer and the outer electrode is 15 to 300 N/m.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: two or more cores for supplying lithium ions, which comprise an electrolyte; two or more inner electrodes arranged in parallel to each other, each inner electrode having one or more inner current collectors wound to surround an outer surface of one of the two or more cores for supplying lithium ions and an inner electrode active material layer formed on respective surfaces of the inner current collectors; and a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, helically wound to surround outer surfaces of the two or more inner electrodes, the laminate being formed by carrying out compression for the integration of a separation layer for preventing a short circuit and an outer electrode having an outer current collector and an outer electrode active material layer formed on one surface of the outer current collector.
High density and high voltage stable cathode materials for secondary  batteries
Disclosed is a cathode active material and a method to produce the same at low cost.
The cathode powder comprises modified LiCoO.sub.2, and possibly a second phase which is LiM'O.sub.2 where M' is Mn, Ni, Co with a stoichiometric ratio Ni:Mn.gtoreq.1.
The modified LiCoO.sub.2 is Ni and Mn bearing and has regions of low and high manganese content, where regions with high manganese content are located in islands on the surface.
The cathode material has high cycling stability, a very high rate performance and good high temperature storage properties.
A lithium metal oxide powder for use as a cathode material in a rechargeable battery, the metal in the powder comprising Co, Ni, and Mn and either one or more of Ti, Mg, and Al, the powder having an electrical conductivity of less than 10.sup.-5 S/cm, when pressed with 63.7 MPa at 25.degree.
C., and the powder having a reversible electrode capacity of at least 180 mAh/g, when used as an active component in a cathode which is cycled between 3.0 and 4.5 V vs. Li.sup.+/Li at a discharge rate of C/10 at 25.degree.
C., wherein the powder has the general formula x LiCoO.sub.2.
(1-x)MO.sub.y, where 0.1<x<1, 0.5<y.ltoreq.2, and M comprises Li and M', with M'=Ni.sub.aMn.sub.bCo.sub.cTi.sub.dMg.sub.e, with a+b+c+d+e=1, and a+b>0.5 and c.gtoreq.0, d.gtoreq.0, e.gtoreq.0, and wherein the Li in M represents a quantity of moles m, with 0.ltoreq.m/M''.ltoreq.0.0501 mol/mol, wherein M'' is the quantity of transition metals in the powder, the powder consisting of a core and a shell, wherein the core comprises either LiCoO.sub.2 or LiCoO.sub.2 plus one or more of Ni, Mn, Al, Mg and Ti and the shell has an island-like morphology comprising a plurality of islands, wherein the islands have a formula LiM'''O.sub.2 with M'''=Ni.sub.m'Mn.sub.nCo.sub.1-m'-n, m'.gtoreq.n, 0.1<m'+n.ltoreq.0.9, and wherein the concentration of Ni and Mn in the islands is greater than that in the core and the concentration of Co in the core is greater than that in the islands, and wherein the islands are sintered to the core.
A lithium metal oxide powder for use as a cathode material in a rechargeable battery, the metal in the powder comprising Co, Ni, and Mn and either one or more of Ti, Mg, and Al, the powder having an electrical conductivity of less than 10.sup.-5 S/cm, when pressed with 63.7 MPa at 25.degree.
C., and the powder having a reversible electrode capacity of at least 200 mAh/g and an energy fading inferior to 60%, when used as an active component in a cathode which is cycled between 3.0 and 4.6 V vs. Li.sup.+/Li at a discharge rate of 0.5C at 25.degree.
C., wherein the energy fade is an extrapolated value for 100 cycles based on the result after 23 cycles of the division of 1) the difference of the discharged energy of a reference cycle at 1C discharge rate before and a reference cycle at 1C discharge rate after a stability cycling test comprising 22 cycles at a discharge rate of 0.5C, by 2) the discharged energy of the reference cycle at 1C discharge rate before the stability cycling test, wherein the powder has the general formula x LiCoO.sub.2.
(1-x)MO.sub.y, where 0.1<x<1, 0.5<y.ltoreq.2, and M comprises Li and M', with M'=Ni.sub.aMn.sub.bCo.sub.cTi.sub.dMg.sub.e, with a+b+c+d+e=1, and a+b>0.5 and c.gtoreq.0, d.gtoreq.0, e.gtoreq.0, and wherein the Li in M represents a quantity of moles m, with 0.ltoreq.m/M''.ltoreq.0.0501 mol/mol, wherein M'' is the quantity of transition metals in the powder, the powder consisting of a core and a shell, wherein the core comprises either LiCoO.sub.2 or LiCoO.sub.2 plus one or more of Ni, Mn, Al, Mg and Ti and the shell has an island-like morphology comprising a plurality of islands, wherein the islands have a formula LiM'''O.sub.2 with M'''=Ni.sub.m'Mn.sub.nCo.sub.1-m'-n, m'.gtoreq.n, 0.1<m'+n.ltoreq.0.9, and wherein the concentration of Ni and Mn in the islands is greater than that in the core and the concentration of Co in the core is greater than that in the islands, and wherein the islands are sintered to the core.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, comprising at least 50 mol % Co. 4.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, wherein the lithium oxide powder consists of a core and a shell, and wherein at least 98 mol % of the metals in both the shell and the core comprise either the elements Li, Mn, Ni and Co, or the elements Li, Mn, Fe, Ni, Co and Ti.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, wherein the core has a conductivity which is higher than the conductivity of the shell.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, wherein the shell has an electrical conductivity being less than 1*10.sup.-6 S/cm, and wherein the conductivity of the shell is less than the conductivity of the core of the lithium metal oxide powder.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, consisting of cations and anions, wherein at least 93 mol % of the cations consist of Li and Co. 8.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, having the general formula x LiCoO.sub.2.
(1-x)MO.sub.y, where 0.1<x<1, 0.5<y.ltoreq.2 and M consists of Li and M', wherein M'=Ni.sub.aMn.sub.bTi.sub.c, with 0.ltoreq.c.ltoreq.0.1, a>b and a+b+c=1.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, wherein the islands comprise at least 5 mol % of Mn.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 9, wherein the islands have a thickness of at least 100 nm and cover less than 70% of the surface of the Mn and Ni bearing LiCoO.sub.2 particles.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 9, wherein the Mn concentration in the islands is at least 4 mol % higher than the Mn concentration in the core of the Mn and Ni bearing LiCoO.sub.2 particles.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 9, wherein the Ni concentration in the islands is at least 2 mol % higher than the Ni concentration in the core of the Mn and Ni bearing LiCoO.sub.2 particles.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 9, wherein the Mn and Ni bearing LiCoO.sub.2 particles comprise at least 3 mol % of both Ni and Mn.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 9, wherein the size distribution of the Mn and Ni bearing LiCoO.sub.2 particles has a d50 larger than 10 .mu.m.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, comprising less than 3 mol % of one or more dopants selected from the group consisting of Al and Mg, and less than 1 mol % of one or more dopants selected from the group consisting of Be, B, Ca, Zr, S, F, and P. 16.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, having a density of at least 3.5 g/cm.sup.3 under application of a pressure of 1.58 Ton/cm.sup.2.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, having a density of at least 3.7 g/cm.sup.3 under application of a pressure of 1.58 Ton/cm.sup.2.
A lithium metal oxide powder for use as a cathode material in a rechargeable battery, the metal in the powder comprising Co, Ni, and Mn and either one or more of Ti, Mg, and Al, the powder having an electrical conductivity of less than 10.sup.-5 S/cm, when pressed with 63.7 MPa at 25.degree.
C., and the powder having a 10C rate performance of at least 90%, and an energy fading inferior to 10%, when used as an active component in a cathode which is cycled between 3.0 and 4.4 V vs. Li.sup.+/Li, wherein the energy fade is an extrapolated value for 100 cycles based on the result after 23 cycles of the division of 1) the difference of the discharged energy of a reference cycle at 1C discharge rate before and a reference cycle at 1C discharge rate after a stability cycling test comprising 22 cycles at a discharge rate of 0.5C, by 2) the discharged energy of the reference cycle at 1C discharge rate before the stability cycling test, wherein the powder has the general formula x LiCoO.sub.2.
(1-x)MO.sub.y, where 0.1<x<1, 0.5<y.ltoreq.2, and M comprises Li and M', with M'=Ni.sub.aMn.sub.bCo.sub.cTi.sub.dMg.sub.e, with a+b+c+d+e=1, and a+b>0.5 and c.gtoreq.0, d.gtoreq.0, e.gtoreq.0, and wherein the Li in M represents a quantity of moles m, with 0.ltoreq.m/M''.ltoreq.0.0501 mol/mol, wherein M'' is the quantity of transition metals in the powder, and wherein the powder consists of a core and a shell, wherein the core comprises LiCoO.sub.2 or LiCoO.sub.2 plus one or more of Ni, Mn, Al, Mg and Ti and the shell has an island like morphology comprising a plurality of islands, wherein the islands have a formula LiM'''O.sub.2 with M'''=Ni.sub.m'Mn.sub.nCo.sub.1-m'-n, m'.gtoreq.n, 0.1<m'+n.ltoreq.0.9, and wherein the concentration of Ni and Mn in the islands is greater than that in the core and the concentration of Co in the core is greater than that in the islands, and wherein the islands are sintered to the core.
A lithium metal oxide powder for use as a cathode material in a rechargeable battery, the metal in the powder comprising Co, Ni, and Mn and either one or more of Ti, Mg, and Al, the powder having an electrical conductivity of less than 10.sup.-5 S/cm, when pressed with 63.7 MPa at 25.degree.
C., and the powder having a 20C rate performance of at least 85%, and an energy fading inferior to 10% when used as an active component in a cathode which is cycled between 3.0 and 4.4 V vs. Li.sup.+/Li, wherein the energy fade is an extrapolated value for 100 cycles based on the result after 23 cycles of the division of 1) the difference of the discharged energy of a reference cycle at 1C discharge rate before and a reference cycle at 1C discharge rate after a stability cycling test comprising 22 cycles at a discharge rate of 0.5C, by 2) the discharged energy of the reference cycle at 1C discharge rate before the stability cycling test, wherein the powder has the general formula x LiCoO.sub.2.
(1-x)MO.sub.y, where 0.1<x<1, 0.5<y.ltoreq.2, and M comprises Li and M', with M'=Ni.sub.aMn.sub.bCo.sub.cTi.sub.dMg.sub.e, with a+b+c+d+e=1, and a+b>0.5 and c.gtoreq.0, d.gtoreq.0, e.gtoreq.0, and wherein the Li in M represents a quantity of moles m, with 0.ltoreq.m/M''.ltoreq.0.0501 mol/mol, wherein M'' is the quantity of transition metals in the powder, and wherein the powder consists of a core and a shell, wherein the core comprises LiCoO.sub.2 or LiCoO.sub.2 plus one or more of Ni, Mn, Al, Mg and Ti and the shell has an island like morphology comprising a plurality of islands, wherein the islands have a formula LiM'''O.sub.2 with M'''=Ni.sub.m'Mn.sub.nCo.sub.1-m'-n, m'.gtoreq.n, 0.1<m'+n.ltoreq.0.9, and wherein the concentration of Ni and Mn in the islands is greater than that in the core and the concentration of Co in the core is greater than that in the islands, and wherein the islands are sintered to the core.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 18, wherein the 20C rate performance is at least 92%.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 18, having an electrical conductivity of less than 10.sup.-7 S/cm.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 18, having a mean particle size of the particle size distribution less than 12 .mu.m.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 18, having a BET surface area less than 1 m.sup.2/g.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 18, having a pressed density of at least 3.2 g/cm.sup.3.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 18, having an average discharge voltage greater than 3.60V when cycled at 20C-rate between 3.0 and 4.4 V vs. Li.sup.+/Li.
An electrochemical cell comprising a cathode comprising as active material the lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1.
A method for preparing the lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, comprising: providing a mixture of LiCoO.sub.2 powder and either: a Li--Ni--Mn--Co-oxide or a Ni--Mn--Co comprising powder, and a Li-comprising compound, the mixture comprising more than 90 wt % of LiCoO.sub.2 powder, and sintering the mixture at a temperature T of at least 910.degree.
C. for a time t between 1 and 48 hrs, wherein the quantity of the Li-comprising compound in the mixture is selected to obtain an insulating lithium metal oxide powder having a conductivity of less than 10.sup.-5 S/cm when pressed with 63.7 MPa at 25.degree.
C. 28.
The method of claim 27, wherein the mixture comprises LiCoO.sub.2 powder and either one or more of a Ni--Mn--Co hydroxide, a Ni--Mn--Co oxihydroxide, a NiMnCo oxide, a Ni--Mn--Co carbonate and a Ni--Mn--Co oxycarbonate.
The method of claim 27, wherein the LiCoO.sub.2 powder further comprises either one or more of Al, Mg and Ti and is prepared by sintering a mixture of a doped Co precursor and a Li precursor.
The method of claim 27, wherein either the Ni--Mn--Co precursor powder further comprises Ti or the LiCoO.sub.2 particles are doped with Ti.
A method for preparing the lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, comprising: providing a mixture of LiCoO.sub.2 powder and either: a Li--Ni--Mn--Co-oxide or a Ni--Mn--Co comprising powder, and a Li-comprising compound, the mixture comprising more than 90 wt % of LiCoO.sub.2 powder, and sintering the mixture at a temperature T of at least 910.degree.
C. for a time t between 1 and 48 hrs, wherein 0.ltoreq.Li/M.ltoreq.0.1, where Li/M is the ratio of Li in the Li-comprising compound to the quantity of transition metals M in the mixture.
The method according to claim 31, wherein 0.ltoreq.Li/M.ltoreq.0.09.
The method according to claim 31, wherein 0.ltoreq.Li/M.ltoreq.0.0501.
The method according to claim 31, wherein 0.ltoreq.Li/M.ltoreq.0.0187.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 6, wherein the shell has an electrical conductivity being less than 1*10.sup.-8 S/cm.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 12, wherein the Ni concentration in the Mn and Ni enriched islands is at least 6 mol % higher than the Ni concentration in the core of the Mn and Ni bearing LiCoO.sub.2 particles.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 13, wherein the Mn and Ni bearing LiCoO.sub.2 particles comprise at least 10 mol % of both Ni and Mn.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, wherein the powder has an electrical conductivity of less than 10.sup.-7 S/cm, when pressed with 63.7 MPa at 25.degree.
C. 39.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 1, wherein the powder has a reversible electrode capacity of at least 180 mAh/g, when used as an active component in a cathode which is cycled between 3.0 and 4.5 V vs. Li.sup.+/Li at a discharge rate of 1C at 25.degree.
C. 40.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 2, wherein the powder has an electrical conductivity of less than 10.sup.-7 S/cm.
The lithium metal oxide powder of claim 2, wherein the powder has a reversible electrode capacity of at least 200 mAh/g and an energy fading inferior to 60%, when used as an active component in a cathode which is cycled between 3.0 and 4.6 V vs. Li.sup.+/Li at a discharge rate of 1C at 25.degree.
C. 42.
A lithium metal oxide powder for use as a cathode material in a rechargeable battery, the metal in the powder comprising Co, Ni, and Mn and either one or more of Ti, Mg, and Al, the powder consisting of a core and a shell, wherein: the core comprises LiCoO.sub.2 or doped LiCoO.sub.2 comprising between 0.1 and 1 mol % of either one or more of Al, Mg and Ti; and the shell has an island like morphology comprising a plurality of islands, wherein the islands comprise one of the following particles, which are densely sintered to the surface of the core: a Li--Ni--Mn--Co-oxide comprising m moles of Li, or a Ni--Mn--Co comprising powder and a Li-comprising compound comprising m moles of Li; wherein 0.ltoreq.m/M''.ltoreq.0.0501 mol/mol, M'' being the total molar quantity of transition metals in the lithium metal oxide powder, wherein the concentration of Ni and Mn in the islands is greater than that in the core and the concentration of Co in the core is greater than that in the islands.
Electrolytes for wide operating temperature lithium-ion cells
Provided herein are electrolytes for lithium-ion electrochemical cells, electrochemical cells employing the electrolytes, methods of making the electrochemical cells and methods of using the electrochemical cells over a wide temperature range.
Included are electrolyte compositions comprising a lithium salt, a cyclic carbonate, a non-cyclic carbonate, and a linear ester and optionally comprising one or more additives.
An electrolyte for use in an electrochemical cell, the electrolyte comprising a mixture of: 15-30% by volume cyclic carbonate, wherein the cyclic carbonate is a combination of mono-fluoroethylene carbonate (FEC) and EC wherein the FEC is present in an amount from 0.5 to 10% by volume; 15-30% by volume non-cyclic carbonate, wherein the non-cyclic carbonate is selected from ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC), dimethyl carbonate (DMC), diethyl carbonate (DEC), methyl propyl carbonate (MPC) and combinations thereof; 40-70% by volume non-fluorinated linear ester, wherein the non-fluorinated linear ester is selected from: methyl propionate, ethyl propionate, methyl butyrate, ethyl butyrate, propyl butyrate, butyl butyrate, and combinations thereof; and a lithium salt in a concentration from 0.5 M to 1.5 M. 2.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein the non-cyclic carbonate is ethyl methyl carbonate (EMC), the lithium salt includes LiPF.sub.6 in a concentration from 0.8 to 1.20 M and the non-fluorinated linear ester is selected from methyl propionate, methyl butyrate and combinations thereof.
The electrolyte of claim 1, wherein at least two non-fluorinated linear esters are present, a first non-fluorinated linear ester having a low viscosity and selected from the group consisting of methyl propionate, ethyl propionate, methyl butyrate and ethyl butyrate and a second non-fluorinated linear ester having a high viscosity and selected from the group consisting of propyl butyrate and butyl butyrate.
The electrolyte of claim 1 further comprising an additive selected from lithium oxalate, lithium bis(oxalato)borate (LiBOB), vinylene carbonate (VC), lithium difluoro(oxolato) borate (LiDFOB) and combinations thereof.
The electrolyte of claim 1 further comprising an additive selected from lithium bis(oxalato)borate (LiBOB), lithium difluoro(oxolato) borate (LiDFOB) and combinations thereof in a concentration of 0.05 to 0.25 M. 6.
The electrolyte of claim 1 wherein the FEC is present in an amount from 2 to 10% by volume.
The electrolyte of claim 1 wherein the FEC is present in an amount from 0.5 to 5% by volume.
An electrochemical cell comprising: an anode; a cathode; and the electrolyte of claim 1 provided between the anode and the cathode.
The electrochemical cell of claim 8, wherein the cathode comprises a material selected from LiCoO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiMPO.sub.4 (M=Fe, Co, Mn), LiNiCoAlO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.0.33CO.sub.0.33Mn.sub.0.33O.sub.2, LiNiCoO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.0.8Co.sub.0.2O.sub.2, Li(Li.sub.0.17Ni.sub.0.25Mn.sub.0.58)O.sub.2, layered-layered composite LiNiCoMnO.sub.2 or LiNi.sub.0.5Mn.sub.1.5O.sub.4.
The electrochemical cell of claim 8, wherein the anode comprises a material selected from natural graphite, synthetic graphite, hard carbon, mesocarbon microbeads (MCMB), silicon-carbon composites, lithium titanate (Li.sub.4Ti.sub.5O.sub.12), lithium metal and combinations thereof.
The electrochemical cell of claim 8 wherein the anode is a carbon-based anode and the cathode is selected from LiFePO.sub.4, LiNiCoO.sub.2, LiNiCoAlO.sub.2, and a layered-layered composite of LiNiCoMnO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.0.5Mn.sub.1.5O.sub.4 or Li Ni.sub.0.33Co.sub.0.33Mn.sub.0.33O.sub.2.
A method of making an electrochemical cell comprising the steps of: providing a cathode; providing an anode; and providing the electrolyte of claim 1 between the cathode and the anode.
A method of generating an electrical current, the method comprising the steps of: providing an electrochemical cell according to claim 8, the cell being in a charged state; and discharging the electrochemical cell.
Cable-type secondary battery
The present disclosure provides a cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; a separation layer surrounding the outer surface of the inner electrode to prevent a short circuit between electrodes; and a sheet-form outer electrode spirally wound to surround the separation layer or the inner electrode.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: an inner electrode; a separation layer surrounding an outer surface of the inner electrode to prevent a short circuit between electrodes; and a sheet-form outer electrode helically wound to surround the separation layer, wherein the sheet-form outer electrode is helically wound so that it does not overlap itself.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the sheet-form outer electrode is in the form of a uniaxially extended strip.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the sheet-form outer electrode is helically wound so that each pass of its helical winding is separated by a space.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the sheet-form outer electrode comprises an outer current collector, an outer electrode active material layer formed on one surface of the outer current collector, and a supporting layer formed on another surface of the outer current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the sheet-form outer electrode comprises an outer current collector in the form of a mesh and an outer electrode active material layer formed on one surface of the outer current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the outer electrode comprises an outer current collector, an outer electrode active material layer formed on one surface of the outer current collector, and a first porous supporting layer formed on the outer electrode active material layer.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 6, wherein the first supporting layer is a mesh-form porous membrane or a non-woven fabric.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 6, wherein the first supporting layer is made of any one selected from the group consisting of high-density polyethylene, low-density polyethylene, linear low-density polyethylene, ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene, polypropylene, polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, polyester, polyacetal, polyamide, polycarbonate, polyimide, polyetheretherketone, polyethersulfone, polyphenylene oxide, polyphenylene sulfide, polyethylene naphthalate, and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 6, wherein the outer electrode further comprises a conductive material coating layer comprising a conductive material and a binder on the first porous supporting layer.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 9, wherein the conductive material comprises any one selected from the group consisting of carbon black, acetylene black, ketjen black, carbon fiber, carbon nanotube, graphene and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 9, wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), polyvinylidene fluoride-co-hexafluoro propylene, polyvinylidene fluoride-co-trichloroethylene, polybutyl acrylate, polymethyl methacrylate, polyacrylonitrile, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinylacetate, polyethylene-co-vinyl acetate, polyethylene oxide, polyarylate, cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate propionate, cyanoethylpullulan, cyanoethylpolyvinylalcohol, cyanoethylcellulose, cyanoethylsucrose, pullulan, carboxyl methyl cellulose, styrene-butadiene rubber, acrylonitrile-styrene-butadiene copolymer, polyimide and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 9, wherein the conductive material and the binder are present in a weight ratio of 80:20 to 99:1 in the conductive material-coating layer.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 6, wherein the outer electrode further comprises a porous coating layer formed on the first porous supporting layer and comprising a mixture of inorganic particles and a binder polymer.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 6, wherein the outer electrode further comprises a second supporting layer formed on another surface of the outer current collector.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 14, wherein the second supporting layer is a polymer film.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 15, wherein the polymer film is made of any one selected from the group consisting of polyolefin, polyester, polyimide, polyamide and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 6, wherein the outer electrode further comprises a conductive layer between the outer electrode active material layer and the first supporting layer, the conductive layer comprising a conductive material and a binder.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 17, wherein the conductive layer is formed from a mixture of the conductive material and the binder in a weight ratio of 1:10 to 8:10.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 17, wherein the conductive layer has a pore size of 0.01 to 5 .mu.m and a porosity of 5 to 70%.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 17, wherein the conductive material comprises any one selected from the group consisting of carbon black, acetylene black, ketjen black, carbon fiber, carbon nanotube, graphene and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 17, wherein the binder is selected from the group consisting of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), polyvinylidene fluoride-co-hexafluoro propylene, polyvinylidene fluoride-co-trichloroethylene, polybutyl acrylate, polymethyl methacrylate, polyacrylonitrile, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinylacetate, polyethylene-co-vinyl acetate, polyethylene oxide, polyarylate, cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate butyrate, cellulose acetate propionate, cyanoethylpullulan, cyanoethylpolyvinylalcohol, cyanoethylcellulose, cyanoethylsucrose, pullulan, carboxyl methyl cellulose, styrene-butadiene rubber, acrylonitrile-styrene-butadiene copolymer, polyimide and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 4, wherein the outer current collector further comprises a primer coating layer consisting of a conductive material and a binder.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the inner electrode is an anode or a cathode, and the outer electrode is a cathode or an anode corresponding to the inner electrode.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein when the inner electrode is an anode and the outer electrode is a cathode, the inner electrode active material comprises any one selected from the group consisting of natural graphite, artificial graphite, or carbonaceous material; lithium-titanium complex oxide (LTO), and metals (Me) including Si, Sn, Li, Zn, Mg, Cd, Ce, Ni and Fe; alloys of the metals; an oxide (MeOx) of the metals; a complex of the metals and carbon; and a mixture thereof, and the outer electrode active material comprises any one selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiCoPO.sub.4, LiFePO.sub.4, LiNiMnCoO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.1-x-y-zCo.sub.xM1.sub.yM2.sub.zO.sub.2 (wherein M1 and M2 are each independently selected from the group consisting of Al, Ni, Co, Fe, Mn, V, Cr, Ti, W, Ta, Mg and Mo, and x, y and z are each independently an atomic fraction of oxide-forming elements, in which 0.ltoreq.x<0.5, 0.ltoreq.y<0.5, 0.ltoreq.z<0.5, and x+y+z.ltoreq.1), and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein when the inner electrode is a cathode and the outer electrode is an anode, the inner electrode active material comprises any one selected from the group consisting of LiCoO.sub.2, LiNiO.sub.2, LiMn.sub.2O.sub.4, LiCoPO.sub.4, LiFePO.sub.4, LiNiMnCoO.sub.2, LiNi.sub.1-x-y-zCo.sub.xM1.sub.yM2.sub.zO.sub.2 (wherein M1 and M2 are each independently selected from the group consisting of Al, Ni, Co, Fe, Mn, V, Cr, Ti, W, Ta, Mg and Mo, and x, y and z are each independently an atomic fraction of oxide-forming elements, in which 0.ltoreq.x<0.5, 0.ltoreq.y<0.5, 0.ltoreq.z<0.5, and x+y+z.ltoreq.1), and a mixture thereof, and the outer electrode active material comprises any one selected from the group consisting of natural graphite, artificial graphite, or carbonaceous material; lithium-titanium complex oxide (LTO), and metals (Me) including Si, Sn, Li, Zn, Mg, Cd, Ce, Ni and Fe; alloys of the metals; an oxide (MeOx) of the metals; a complex of the metals and carbon; and a mixture thereof.
The cable-type secondary battery according to claim 1, wherein the separation layer is laminated on the outer electrode to form a sheet-form laminate of separation layer-outer electrode, and the laminate of separation layer-outer electrode is helically wound to surround the inner electrode.
A cable-type secondary battery, comprising: two or more inner electrodes arranged in parallel to each other; a separation layer surrounding outer surfaces of the two or more inner electrodes to prevent a short circuit between electrodes; and a sheet-form outer electrode helically wound to surround the separation layer, wherein the sheet-form outer electrode is helically wound so that it does not overlap itself.
